CATACLYSM_STUDIOS_INC/PMOVES-PROVISIONS/docker-stacks/jellyfin-ai/jellyfin-ai-media-stack-guide.md, before:

# Jellyfin AI-Powered Media Stack with Supabase & Neo4j

Complete Docker-based solution for hosting media, analyzing content with AI, and creating YouTube content from your music library.

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

This stack integrates:
- **Jellyfin**: Media server for streaming music, videos, and podcasts
- **Supabase**: Backend database for user data and media metadata
- **Neo4j**: Graph database for content relationships and recommendations
- **Qwen Audio**: AI model for audio content analysis
- **API Gateway**: RESTful API for external integrations
- **Redis**: Caching and job queue management

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose installed
- 8GB+ RAM recommended
- 100GB+ storage for media files

### Installation

1. **Clone/Download the configuration files**
2. **Run the setup script:**
   ```bash
   chmod +x setup.sh
   ./setup.sh
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.template .env
   # Edit .env with your actual credentials
   ```

4. **Start the stack:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

## 📁 Directory Structure

```
project-root/
├── docker-compose.yml
├── .env.template
├── setup.sh
├── media/
│   ├── music/          # Your music files
│   ├── videos/         # Video content
│   └── podcasts/       # Podcast files
├── jellyfin/
│   ├── config/         # Jellyfin configuration
│   └── cache/          # Jellyfin cache
├── neo4j/
│   ├── data/           # Graph database
│   ├── logs/           # Neo4j logs
│   └── import/         # Data import folder
├── audio-processor/    # AI audio analysis service
├── api-gateway/        # REST API service
└── output/             # AI-processed content
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables (.env)

```bash
# Supabase Configuration
SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_KEY=your-service-role-key

# Security
JWT_SECRET=your-jwt-secret-here
NEO4J_PASSWORD=mediapassword123

# AI Configuration  
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key-if-needed
HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN=your-hf-token-if-needed

# YouTube API (for content creation)
YOUTUBE_API_KEY=your-youtube-api-key
```

### Supabase Setup

1. Create a new Supabase project
2. Run the SQL setup script in your Supabase SQL editor:
   ```sql
   -- Use supabase-setup.sql content
   ```
3. Update your .env file with the project credentials

### Neo4j Configuration

Default credentials:
- Username: `neo4j`
- Password: `mediapassword123`
- Browser: http://localhost:7474

## 🎵 Adding Media Content

1. **Add files to media directories:**
   ```bash
   cp /path/to/your/music/* ./media/music/
   cp /path/to/your/videos/* ./media/videos/
   ```

2. **Configure Jellyfin libraries:**
   - Visit http://localhost:8096
   - Complete initial setup
   - Add libraries pointing to `/media/music`, `/media/videos`, etc.

3. **Auto-analysis:**
   - Media files are automatically analyzed by AI
   - Results stored in Supabase and Neo4j
   - Check processing status via API

## 🤖 AI Audio Analysis Features

### Automated Content Analysis
- **Genre Detection**: Automatically categorizes music by genre
- **Mood Analysis**: Detects emotional content (happy, sad, energetic, etc.)
- **Instrument Recognition**: Identifies instruments and vocals
- **Technical Features**: Extracts tempo, key, spectral features
- **Content Description**: Generates detailed text descriptions

### Integration with Qwen Audio Model
- Processes audio files in real-time
- Generates structured metadata
- Creates searchable content descriptions
- Builds recommendation relationships

## 📊 Graph Database Relationships (Neo4j)

### Node Types
- **Media**: Individual audio/video files
- **Analysis**: AI-generated content analysis
- **AudioFeatures**: Technical audio characteristics
- **Genre**: Music genres
- **Artist**: Musicians/creators
- **Playlist**: Generated playlists

### Relationship Types
- `HAS_ANALYSIS`: Media → Analysis
- `HAS_FEATURES`: Media → AudioFeatures  
- `BELONGS_TO_GENRE`: Media → Genre
- `SIMILAR_TO`: Media → Media (based on features)
- `PERFORMED`: Artist → Media
- `CONTAINS`: Playlist → Media

## 🌐 API Endpoints

### Media Management
- `GET /api/media` - List all media with analysis
- `GET /api/media/:id` - Get specific media details
- `POST /api/analyze/:mediaId` - Trigger AI analysis

### Search & Discovery
- `GET /api/search?q=query` - Search media content
- `GET /api/recommendations/:mediaId` - Get similar content

### Content Creation
- `POST /api/youtube/analyze` - Analyze for YouTube content
- `GET /api/export/:format` - Export data (JSON/CSV)

### Analytics
- `GET /api/analytics` - Dashboard analytics data

## 🎬 YouTube Content Creation Workflow

### 1. Content Analysis
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/youtube/analyze \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "videoUrl": "https://youtube.com/watch?v=example",
    "mediaIds": ["media-id-1", "media-id-2"]
  }'
```

### 2. Generated Suggestions
- Video titles based on music analysis
- Descriptions with technical details
- Timestamp markers for different tracks
- Relevant tags from AI analysis

### 3. Export for Video Editing
- Export metadata as JSON/CSV
- Include audio feature data
- Generate timeline suggestions
- Create comparison charts

## 🔍 Advanced Queries

### Neo4j Cypher Examples

**Find similar music by tempo:**
```cypher
MATCH (m:Media {name: "Your Song"})-[:HAS_FEATURES]->(f:AudioFeatures)
MATCH (similar:Media)-[:HAS_FEATURES]->(sf:AudioFeatures)
WHERE abs(f.tempo - sf.tempo) < 10
RETURN similar.name, sf.tempo
```

**Get genre-based recommendations:**
```cypher
MATCH (m:Media)-[:BELONGS_TO_GENRE]->(g:Genre)<-[:BELONGS_TO_GENRE]-(rec:Media)
WHERE m.name = "Your Song" AND m <> rec
RETURN rec.name, g.name
LIMIT 10
```

**Find mood-based playlists:**
```cypher
MATCH (p:Playlist)-[:CONTAINS]->(m:Media)-[:HAS_ANALYSIS]->(a:Analysis)
WHERE a.ai_analysis.mood = "energetic"
RETURN p.name, count(m) as trackCount
```

## 🚀 Advanced Setup & Integrations

### Custom AI Models

1. **Replace Qwen with other models:**
   ```yaml
   # In docker-compose.yml
   qwen-audio:
     image: your-custom-model:latest
     # ... rest of configuration
   ```

2. **Add multiple AI services:**
   ```yaml
   whisper-transcription:
     image: openai/whisper:latest
     # ... configuration
   
   music-classifier:
     image: your-music-ai:latest
     # ... configuration
   ```

### External Integrations

#### Jellyfin Plugins
- Install SSO authentication plugins
- Add metadata enhancers
- Configure external scrapers

#### Supabase Extensions
- Enable real-time subscriptions
- Set up database functions
- Configure storage buckets

#### Neo4j Plugins
- Graph Data Science library
- APOC procedures
- Bloom visualization

### Scaling & Performance

#### Horizontal Scaling
```yaml
# Add to docker-compose.yml
audio-processor:
  # ... existing config
  deploy:
    replicas: 3
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: 4G
```

#### GPU Acceleration
```yaml
qwen-audio:
  # ... existing config
  deploy:
    resources:
      reservations:
        devices:
          - driver: nvidia
            count: 1
            capabilities: [gpu]
```

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Services not starting:**
```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs -f [service-name]

# Restart specific service
docker-compose restart [service-name]
```

**Database connection issues:**
```bash
# Check network connectivity
docker network ls
docker network inspect [network-name]
```

**AI processing failures:**
```bash
# Check audio processor logs
docker-compose logs audio-processor

# Manually trigger analysis
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/analyze/[media-id]
```

### Performance Optimization

**Jellyfin transcoding:**
- Enable hardware acceleration
- Configure quality settings
- Use appropriate codecs

**Neo4j memory:**
```bash
# Adjust in docker-compose.yml
NEO4J_dbms_memory_heap_max__size=4G
NEO4J_dbms_memory_pagecache_size=2G
```

**Redis caching:**
```bash
# Monitor cache hit rates
docker exec -it redis redis-cli info stats
```

## 📚 Additional Resources

### Documentation Links
- [Jellyfin Documentation](https://jellyfin.org/docs/) - Complete Jellyfin setup guide
- [Supabase Docs](https://supabase.com/docs) - Database and API documentation  
- [Neo4j Developer Guides](https://neo4j.com/developer/) - Graph database tutorials
- [Docker Compose Reference](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) - Container orchestration

### Tutorials & Guides
- [Jellyfin Docker Setup](https://pimylifeup.com/jellyfin-docker/) - Detailed Docker deployment guide
- [Neo4j Data Import](https://neo4j.com/docs/getting-started/appendix/tutorials/guide-import-relational-and-etl/) - Import from relational databases
- [Supabase Integration Guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/integrations/build-a-supabase-integration) - Building integrations
- [AI Audio Analysis](https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen-Audio) - Qwen Audio model documentation

### Community Resources
- [r/jellyfin](https://reddit.com/r/jellyfin) - Jellyfin community
- [r/selfhosted](https://reddit.com/r/selfhosted) - Self-hosting discussions
- [Neo4j Community](https://community.neo4j.com/) - Graph database forum
- [Supabase Discord](https://discord.supabase.com/) - Real-time support

### AI/ML Resources
- [Hugging Face Audio Models](https://huggingface.co/models?pipeline_tag=audio-classification) - Pre-trained audio models
- [OpenAI Whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper) - Speech recognition
- [Spotify Research](https://research.spotify.com/) - Music recommendation algorithms
- [Music Information Retrieval](https://musicinformationretrieval.com/) - Academic resources

## 🤝 Contributing & Customization

### Extending the Stack

**Add new AI models:**
1. Create Docker service in compose file
2. Add API integration in audio-processor
3. Update database schema if needed
4. Configure API gateway endpoints

**Custom content types:**
1. Extend Supabase schema
2. Add Neo4j node types
3. Update API endpoints
4. Modify dashboard UI

**Integration with other services:**
- Plex integration
- Spotify API connections
- Last.fm scrobbling
- Discord bot integration

This comprehensive setup provides a powerful foundation for AI-powered media analysis and content creation, perfect for music producers, content creators, and media enthusiasts looking to automate and enhance their workflow.

Commit message:

Add secure Jellyfin credentials support

CATACLYSM_STUDIOS_INC/PMOVES-PROVISIONS/docker-stacks/jellyfin-ai/jellyfin-ai-media-stack-guide.md, after:

# Jellyfin AI-Powered Media Stack with Supabase & Neo4j

Complete Docker-based solution for hosting media, analyzing content with AI, and creating YouTube content from your music library.

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

This stack integrates:
- **Jellyfin**: Media server for streaming music, videos, and podcasts
- **Supabase**: Backend database for user data and media metadata
- **Neo4j**: Graph database for content relationships and recommendations
- **Qwen Audio**: AI model for audio content analysis
- **API Gateway**: RESTful API for external integrations
- **Redis**: Caching and job queue management

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose installed
- 8GB+ RAM recommended
- 100GB+ storage for media files

### Installation

1. **Clone/Download the configuration files**
2. **Run the setup script:**
   ```bash
   chmod +x setup.sh
   ./setup.sh
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.template .env
   # Edit .env with your actual credentials
   ```

4. **Start the stack:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

## 📁 Directory Structure

```
project-root/
├── docker-compose.yml
├── .env.template
├── setup.sh
├── media/
│   ├── music/          # Your music files
│   ├── videos/         # Video content
│   └── podcasts/       # Podcast files
├── jellyfin/
│   ├── config/         # Jellyfin configuration
│   └── cache/          # Jellyfin cache
├── neo4j/
│   ├── data/           # Graph database
│   ├── logs/           # Neo4j logs
│   └── import/         # Data import folder
├── audio-processor/    # AI audio analysis service
├── api-gateway/        # REST API service
└── output/             # AI-processed content
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables (.env)

```bash
# Supabase Configuration
SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_KEY=your-service-role-key

# Security
JWT_SECRET=your-jwt-secret-here
NEO4J_PASSWORD=mediapassword123
JELLYFIN_USERNAME=your-jellyfin-username
JELLYFIN_PASSWORD=your-jellyfin-password
# Optionally set an API key instead of credentials
JELLYFIN_API_KEY=

# AI Configuration  
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key-if-needed
HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN=your-hf-token-if-needed

# YouTube API (for content creation)
YOUTUBE_API_KEY=your-youtube-api-key
```

### Supabase Setup

1. Create a new Supabase project
2. Run the SQL setup script in your Supabase SQL editor:
   ```sql
   -- Use supabase-setup.sql content
   ```
3. Update your .env file with the project credentials, including Jellyfin credentials or an API key.

### Neo4j Configuration

Default credentials:
- Username: `neo4j`
- Password: `mediapassword123`
- Browser: http://localhost:7474

## 🎵 Adding Media Content

1. **Add files to media directories:**
   ```bash
   cp /path/to/your/music/* ./media/music/
   cp /path/to/your/videos/* ./media/videos/
   ```

2. **Configure Jellyfin libraries:**
   - Visit http://localhost:8096
   - Complete initial setup
   - Add libraries pointing to `/media/music`, `/media/videos`, etc.

3. **Auto-analysis:**
   - Media files are automatically analyzed by AI
   - Results stored in Supabase and Neo4j
   - Check processing status via API

## 🤖 AI Audio Analysis Features

### Automated Content Analysis
- **Genre Detection**: Automatically categorizes music by genre
- **Mood Analysis**: Detects emotional content (happy, sad, energetic, etc.)
- **Instrument Recognition**: Identifies instruments and vocals
- **Technical Features**: Extracts tempo, key, spectral features
- **Content Description**: Generates detailed text descriptions

### Integration with Qwen Audio Model
- Processes audio files in real-time
- Generates structured metadata
- Creates searchable content descriptions
- Builds recommendation relationships

## 📊 Graph Database Relationships (Neo4j)

### Node Types
- **Media**: Individual audio/video files
- **Analysis**: AI-generated content analysis
- **AudioFeatures**: Technical audio characteristics
- **Genre**: Music genres
- **Artist**: Musicians/creators
- **Playlist**: Generated playlists

### Relationship Types
- `HAS_ANALYSIS`: Media → Analysis
- `HAS_FEATURES`: Media → AudioFeatures  
- `BELONGS_TO_GENRE`: Media → Genre
- `SIMILAR_TO`: Media → Media (based on features)
- `PERFORMED`: Artist → Media
- `CONTAINS`: Playlist → Media

## 🌐 API Endpoints

### Media Management
- `GET /api/media` - List all media with analysis
- `GET /api/media/:id` - Get specific media details
- `POST /api/analyze/:mediaId` - Trigger AI analysis

### Search & Discovery
- `GET /api/search?q=query` - Search media content
- `GET /api/recommendations/:mediaId` - Get similar content

### Content Creation
- `POST /api/youtube/analyze` - Analyze for YouTube content
- `GET /api/export/:format` - Export data (JSON/CSV)

### Analytics
- `GET /api/analytics` - Dashboard analytics data

## 🎬 YouTube Content Creation Workflow

### 1. Content Analysis
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/youtube/analyze \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "videoUrl": "https://youtube.com/watch?v=example",
    "mediaIds": ["media-id-1", "media-id-2"]
  }'
```

### 2. Generated Suggestions
- Video titles based on music analysis
- Descriptions with technical details
- Timestamp markers for different tracks
- Relevant tags from AI analysis

### 3. Export for Video Editing
- Export metadata as JSON/CSV
- Include audio feature data
- Generate timeline suggestions
- Create comparison charts

## 🔍 Advanced Queries

### Neo4j Cypher Examples

**Find similar music by tempo:**
```cypher
MATCH (m:Media {name: "Your Song"})-[:HAS_FEATURES]->(f:AudioFeatures)
MATCH (similar:Media)-[:HAS_FEATURES]->(sf:AudioFeatures)
WHERE abs(f.tempo - sf.tempo) < 10
RETURN similar.name, sf.tempo
```

**Get genre-based recommendations:**
```cypher
MATCH (m:Media)-[:BELONGS_TO_GENRE]->(g:Genre)<-[:BELONGS_TO_GENRE]-(rec:Media)
WHERE m.name = "Your Song" AND m <> rec
RETURN rec.name, g.name
LIMIT 10
```

**Find mood-based playlists:**
```cypher
MATCH (p:Playlist)-[:CONTAINS]->(m:Media)-[:HAS_ANALYSIS]->(a:Analysis)
WHERE a.ai_analysis.mood = "energetic"
RETURN p.name, count(m) as trackCount
```

## 🚀 Advanced Setup & Integrations

### Custom AI Models

1. **Replace Qwen with other models:**
   ```yaml
   # In docker-compose.yml
   qwen-audio:
     image: your-custom-model:latest
     # ... rest of configuration
   ```

2. **Add multiple AI services:**
   ```yaml
   whisper-transcription:
     image: openai/whisper:latest
     # ... configuration
   
   music-classifier:
     image: your-music-ai:latest
     # ... configuration
   ```

### External Integrations

#### Jellyfin Plugins
- Install SSO authentication plugins
- Add metadata enhancers
- Configure external scrapers

#### Supabase Extensions
- Enable real-time subscriptions
- Set up database functions
- Configure storage buckets

#### Neo4j Plugins
- Graph Data Science library
- APOC procedures
- Bloom visualization

### Scaling & Performance

#### Horizontal Scaling
```yaml
# Add to docker-compose.yml
audio-processor:
  # ... existing config
  deploy:
    replicas: 3
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: 4G
```

#### GPU Acceleration
```yaml
qwen-audio:
  # ... existing config
  deploy:
    resources:
      reservations:
        devices:
          - driver: nvidia
            count: 1
            capabilities: [gpu]
```

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Services not starting:**
```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs -f [service-name]

# Restart specific service
docker-compose restart [service-name]
```

**Database connection issues:**
```bash
# Check network connectivity
docker network ls
docker network inspect [network-name]
```

**AI processing failures:**
```bash
# Check audio processor logs
docker-compose logs audio-processor

# Manually trigger analysis
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/analyze/[media-id]
```

### Performance Optimization

**Jellyfin transcoding:**
- Enable hardware acceleration
- Configure quality settings
- Use appropriate codecs

**Neo4j memory:**
```bash
# Adjust in docker-compose.yml
NEO4J_dbms_memory_heap_max__size=4G
NEO4J_dbms_memory_pagecache_size=2G
```

**Redis caching:**
```bash
# Monitor cache hit rates
docker exec -it redis redis-cli info stats
```

## 📚 Additional Resources

### Documentation Links
- [Jellyfin Documentation](https://jellyfin.org/docs/) - Complete Jellyfin setup guide
- [Supabase Docs](https://supabase.com/docs) - Database and API documentation  
- [Neo4j Developer Guides](https://neo4j.com/developer/) - Graph database tutorials
- [Docker Compose Reference](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) - Container orchestration

### Tutorials & Guides
- [Jellyfin Docker Setup](https://pimylifeup.com/jellyfin-docker/) - Detailed Docker deployment guide
- [Neo4j Data Import](https://neo4j.com/docs/getting-started/appendix/tutorials/guide-import-relational-and-etl/) - Import from relational databases
- [Supabase Integration Guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/integrations/build-a-supabase-integration) - Building integrations
- [AI Audio Analysis](https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen-Audio) - Qwen Audio model documentation

### Community Resources
- [r/jellyfin](https://reddit.com/r/jellyfin) - Jellyfin community
- [r/selfhosted](https://reddit.com/r/selfhosted) - Self-hosting discussions
- [Neo4j Community](https://community.neo4j.com/) - Graph database forum
- [Supabase Discord](https://discord.supabase.com/) - Real-time support

### AI/ML Resources
- [Hugging Face Audio Models](https://huggingface.co/models?pipeline_tag=audio-classification) - Pre-trained audio models
- [OpenAI Whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper) - Speech recognition
- [Spotify Research](https://research.spotify.com/) - Music recommendation algorithms
- [Music Information Retrieval](https://musicinformationretrieval.com/) - Academic resources

## 🤝 Contributing & Customization

### Extending the Stack

**Add new AI models:**
1. Create Docker service in compose file
2. Add API integration in audio-processor
3. Update database schema if needed
4. Configure API gateway endpoints

**Custom content types:**
1. Extend Supabase schema
2. Add Neo4j node types
3. Update API endpoints
4. Modify dashboard UI

**Integration with other services:**
- Plex integration
- Spotify API connections
- Last.fm scrobbling
- Discord bot integration

This comprehensive setup provides a powerful foundation for AI-powered media analysis and content creation, perfect for music producers, content creators, and media enthusiasts looking to automate and enhance their workflow.
