CRUSH.md, before:

# PMOVES Crush Playbook

This guide captures how we use [Charm's Crush CLI](https://github.com/charmbracelet/crush)
as our interactive coding bestie alongside the PMOVES stack.

## Quick Start

1. Install Crush (see upstream README for the package manager of your choice) and
   make sure it is on your `PATH`.
2. Install the `typer` and `PyYAML` dependencies for the mini CLI (recommended via uv):
   ```bash
   uv pip install typer[all] PyYAML
   ```
3. With both packages installed, prime the environment and provisioning bundle in one shot:
   ```bash
   python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli bootstrap --accept-defaults
   ```
   Pass `--registry`/`--service` if you need to scope the bootstrap or `--output`
   to drop the provisioning pack somewhere other than
   `CATACLYSM_STUDIOS_INC/PMOVES-PROVISIONS/`.
4. Generate the PMOVES opinionated `crush.json`:
   ```bash
   python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli crush setup
   ```
5. Launch Crush inside the repository root:
   ```bash
   crush
   ```

The generated configuration:

- Prefers models whose API keys are present in `.env.generated` / `.env.local`
  (OpenAI, Anthropic, Gemini, DeepSeek, Ollama fallback).
- Registers MCP stubs for the upcoming `pmoves-mini` stdio server, Docker MCP, and
  the n8n HTTP bridge. Entries are auto-disabled until their binaries or API keys
  are detected.
- Adds PMOVES docs, roadmaps, and CHIT manifest as default context paths.
- Enables common LSP servers (`gopls`, `pyright`, `typescript-language-server`).

Running the preview command shows the current default context paths (the
generator automatically skips any missing files):

- `CRUSH.md`
- `pmoves/docs/ROADMAP.md`
- `pmoves/docs/NEXT_STEPS.md`
- `pmoves/docs/SMOKETESTS.md`
- `pmoves/chit/secrets_manifest.yaml`
- `docs/PMOVES_MINI_CLI_SPEC.md`

Run `python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli crush status` to confirm the active config
path and provider list.

## Integrating with PMOVES Mini CLI

The mini CLI will eventually expose `pmoves mini mcp serve`, which Crush's
`pmoves-mini` MCP entry will call. For now the entry stays disabled until that
command ships.

Use hardware profiles to stage the right local models before launching Crush:

```bash
python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli profile detect
python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli profile apply desktop-9950xd
python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli models pull --bundle ollama-high  # (future)
```

## CHIT Awareness

- `pmoves/chit/secrets_manifest.yaml` is included in `options.context_paths` so
  Crush has a canonical view of secret labels while drafting automations.
- The `crush setup` command reads from `.env.generated` / `env.shared.generated`
  and only activates providers when the corresponding secrets exist.

## n8n & Messaging Hooks

The automation scanner available via
`python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli automations list` summarises the flows Crush can
invoke through MCP requests. Webhook endpoints are surfaced with the `webhooks`
subcommand, making it easy to plug them into Crush prompts or MCP actions.

## Updating Configuration

- Regenerate the config after rotating API keys or adding new secrets:
  `python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli crush setup`
- To preview the JSON without writing it, run:
  `python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli crush preview`
- Manual edits can still live in `~/.config/crush/crush.json`; re-run the setup
  command whenever you need to resync with the manifest.

## Next Steps

- Implement `pmoves mini mcp serve` so the Crush stdio MCP can call into the mini
  CLI.
- Package the config generator as part of a future `pmoves` Python package.
- Add a `crush` target to `Makefile` once the MCP bridge is battle-tested.

Commit message:

docs: note provisioning wizard in Crush quick start

CRUSH.md, after:

# PMOVES Crush Playbook

This guide captures how we use [Charm's Crush CLI](https://github.com/charmbracelet/crush)
as our interactive coding bestie alongside the PMOVES stack.

## Quick Start

1. Install Crush (see upstream README for the package manager of your choice) and
   make sure it is on your `PATH`.
2. Install the `typer` and `PyYAML` dependencies for the mini CLI (recommended via uv):
   ```bash
   uv pip install typer[all] PyYAML
   ```
3. With both packages installed, prime the environment and provisioning bundle in one shot:
   ```bash
   python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli bootstrap --accept-defaults
   ```
   The command copies the refreshed provisioning PR pack (`pmoves/pmoves_provisioning_pr_pack/`)
   into `CATACLYSM_STUDIOS_INC/PMOVES-PROVISIONS/`, including the new
   `scripts/install/wizard.{sh,ps1}` flow for bring-up across Windows and Linux
   hosts. Pass `--registry`/`--service` if you need to scope the bootstrap or
   `--output` to stage the bundle somewhere else.
4. Generate the PMOVES opinionated `crush.json`:
   ```bash
   python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli crush setup
   ```
5. Launch Crush inside the repository root:
   ```bash
   crush
   ```

The generated configuration:

- Prefers models whose API keys are present in `.env.generated` / `.env.local`
  (OpenAI, Anthropic, Gemini, DeepSeek, Ollama fallback).
- Registers MCP stubs for the upcoming `pmoves-mini` stdio server, Docker MCP, and
  the n8n HTTP bridge. Entries are auto-disabled until their binaries or API keys
  are detected.
- Adds PMOVES docs, roadmaps, and CHIT manifest as default context paths.
- Enables common LSP servers (`gopls`, `pyright`, `typescript-language-server`).

Running the preview command shows the current default context paths (the
generator automatically skips any missing files):

- `CRUSH.md`
- `pmoves/docs/ROADMAP.md`
- `pmoves/docs/NEXT_STEPS.md`
- `pmoves/docs/SMOKETESTS.md`
- `pmoves/chit/secrets_manifest.yaml`
- `docs/PMOVES_MINI_CLI_SPEC.md`

Run `python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli crush status` to confirm the active config
path and provider list.

## Integrating with PMOVES Mini CLI

The mini CLI will eventually expose `pmoves mini mcp serve`, which Crush's
`pmoves-mini` MCP entry will call. For now the entry stays disabled until that
command ships.

Use hardware profiles to stage the right local models before launching Crush:

```bash
python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli profile detect
python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli profile apply desktop-9950xd
python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli models pull --bundle ollama-high  # (future)
```

## CHIT Awareness

- `pmoves/chit/secrets_manifest.yaml` is included in `options.context_paths` so
  Crush has a canonical view of secret labels while drafting automations.
- The `crush setup` command reads from `.env.generated` / `env.shared.generated`
  and only activates providers when the corresponding secrets exist.

## n8n & Messaging Hooks

The automation scanner available via
`python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli automations list` summarises the flows Crush can
invoke through MCP requests. Webhook endpoints are surfaced with the `webhooks`
subcommand, making it easy to plug them into Crush prompts or MCP actions.

## Updating Configuration

- Regenerate the config after rotating API keys or adding new secrets:
  `python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli crush setup`
- To preview the JSON without writing it, run:
  `python3 -m pmoves.tools.mini_cli crush preview`
- Manual edits can still live in `~/.config/crush/crush.json`; re-run the setup
  command whenever you need to resync with the manifest.

## Next Steps

- Implement `pmoves mini mcp serve` so the Crush stdio MCP can call into the mini
  CLI.
- Package the config generator as part of a future `pmoves` Python package.
- Add a `crush` target to `Makefile` once the MCP bridge is battle-tested.
