pmoves/docs/PMOVES.AI PLANS/JELLYFIN_BRIDGE_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# Jellyfin Bridge Integration Guide

## Overview

The **Jellyfin Bridge** (`jellyfin-bridge` service on port 8093) provides bidirectional integration between Jellyfin media server and PMOVES services, enabling:

1. **Metadata Linking** - Associate YouTube videos with Jellyfin library items
2. **Playback URLs** - Generate deep links to Jellyfin player with timestamps
3. **Auto-mapping** - Automatic title-based matching between videos and Jellyfin items
4. **Search** - Query Jellyfin library for media matching video titles
5. **Refresh Triggers** - Webhook endpoint for Jellyfin library updates

## Architecture

```
Jellyfin Library
    ↓
jellyfin-bridge (8093)
    ↓
├─→ PMOVES.yt (8077) - YouTube ingestion & transcripts
├─→ Supabase/PostgREST - videos, transcripts, studio_board
└─→ Agent Zero (8080) - Event publishing for downstream workflows
```

## Service Configuration

### Docker Compose

```yaml
jellyfin-bridge:
  build: ./services/jellyfin-bridge
  ports: ["8093:8093"]
  profiles: ["orchestration"]
  environment:
    - JELLYFIN_URL=${JELLYFIN_INTERNAL_URL:-http://jellyfin:8096}
    - JELLYFIN_API_KEY=${JELLYFIN_API_KEY}
    - JELLYFIN_USER_ID=${JELLYFIN_USER_ID}
    - SUPA_REST_URL=${SUPA_REST_INTERNAL_URL:-http://postgrest:3000}
    - JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true  # Enable auto-mapping
    - AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC=60  # Auto-map every 60 seconds
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required | Default |
|----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `JELLYFIN_URL` | Jellyfin server base URL (internal) | Yes | `http://jellyfin:8096` |
| `JELLYFIN_API_KEY` | Jellyfin API key for authentication | Yes | - |
| `JELLYFIN_USER_ID` | Jellyfin user ID for library access | Yes | - |
| `SUPA_REST_URL` | PostgREST base URL | Yes | `http://postgrest:3000` |
| `JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK` | Enable automatic title-based mapping | No | `false` |
| `AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC` | Auto-map check interval (seconds) | No | `60` |

### Getting Jellyfin Credentials

```bash
# 1. Get API Key from Jellyfin Dashboard
# Navigate to: Dashboard → Advanced → API Keys → Create new API key

# 2. Get User ID
curl -s "http://localhost:8096/Users" \
  -H "X-Emby-Token: YOUR_API_KEY" | jq -r '.[] | select(.Name=="YourUsername") | .Id'

# 3. Add to .env.local
echo "JELLYFIN_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY_HERE" >> pmoves/.env.local
echo "JELLYFIN_USER_ID=YOUR_USER_ID_HERE" >> pmoves/.env.local
```

## API Endpoints

### Health Check

```bash
GET /healthz
```

**Response:**
```json
{"ok": true}
```

---

### Link Video to Jellyfin Item

```bash
POST /jellyfin/link
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ",
  "jellyfin_item_id": "abc123..."
}
```

**Purpose:** Manually associate a YouTube video with a Jellyfin library item.

**Response:**
```json
{"ok": true}
```

**Updates:** Sets `videos.meta.jellyfin_item_id` in Supabase.

---

### Refresh Jellyfin Library

```bash
POST /jellyfin/refresh
Content-Type: application/json
{}
```

**Purpose:** Trigger Jellyfin library refresh (calls `/System/Info` to verify connection).

**Response:**
```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "system": "10.10.7"
}
```

---

### Get Playback URL

```bash
POST /jellyfin/playback-url
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ",
  "t": 120.5
}
```

**Purpose:** Generate Jellyfin deep link for video playback at specific timestamp.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "url": "http://jellyfin:8096/web/index.html#!/details?id=abc123&serverId=local&startTime=120"
}
```

**Note:** If video not linked to Jellyfin item, returns placeholder URL.

---

### Search Jellyfin Library

```bash
GET /jellyfin/search?query=Rick+Astley
```

**Purpose:** Query Jellyfin library for movies/videos matching search term.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "items": [
    {
      "Id": "abc123...",
      "Name": "Rick Astley - Never Gonna Give You Up",
      "ProductionYear": 1987
    }
  ]
}
```

---

### Auto-Map by Title

```bash
POST /jellyfin/map-by-title
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ",
  "title": "Rick Astley"  # Optional, uses video title from DB if omitted
}
```

**Purpose:** Automatically find and link best-matching Jellyfin item by title.

**Matching Logic:**
1. Searches Jellyfin library for title
2. Picks item with closest case-insensitive substring match
3. Falls back to first result if no exact match
4. Updates `videos.meta.jellyfin_item_id`

**Response:**
```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "mapped": {
    "video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ",
    "jellyfin_item_id": "abc123...",
    "name": "Rick Astley - Never Gonna Give You Up"
  }
}
```

---

## Integration with PMOVES.yt

### Workflow: YouTube Video → Jellyfin Library

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant n8n
    participant PMOVES.yt
    participant Bridge as jellyfin-bridge
    participant JF as Jellyfin
    participant Supa as Supabase

    User->>n8n: POST /webhook/youtube-ingest
    n8n->>PMOVES.yt: POST /yt/ingest
    PMOVES.yt->>Supa: INSERT videos
    n8n->>PMOVES.yt: POST /yt/emit (Hi-RAG)
    n8n->>PMOVES.yt: POST /yt/summarize
    n8n->>Bridge: POST /jellyfin/map-by-title
    Bridge->>JF: GET /Items?searchTerm=...
    JF-->>Bridge: [matching items]
    Bridge->>Supa: PATCH videos.meta
    Bridge-->>n8n: {mapped: {...}}
```

### Backfill Script Integration

The backfill script (`scripts/backfill_jellyfin_metadata.py`) uses the bridge for:

1. **Fetching Jellyfin Items** - Queries Jellyfin library via bridge search
2. **YouTube Transcript Search** - Uses PMOVES.yt `/yt/search` for semantic matching
3. **Metadata Enrichment** - Combines Jellyfin + YouTube data in `content.published.v1` events
4. **Auto-linking** - Optionally links YouTube transcripts to Jellyfin items via bridge

**Example Usage:**

```bash
# Backfill with YouTube transcript linking
python pmoves/scripts/backfill_jellyfin_metadata.py \
  --limit 25 \
  --link-youtube \
  --youtube-threshold 0.70 \
  --sleep 1.5
```

**What it does:**
1. Fetches `studio_board` entries without Jellyfin metadata
2. For each entry, searches PMOVES.yt corpus for semantically similar YouTube videos
3. Links top matching YouTube transcripts to Jellyfin items
4. Publishes enriched `content.published.v1` events to Agent Zero
5. Updates `studio_board.meta` with YouTube links and Jellyfin metadata

---

## Auto-Linking Feature

When `JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true`, the bridge runs a background loop that:

1. Fetches recent unmapped videos from Supabase (25 at a time)
2. For each video without `jellyfin_item_id`, calls `/jellyfin/map-by-title`
3. Sleeps for `AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC` (default 60s)
4. Repeats indefinitely

**Enable in docker-compose:**

```yaml
jellyfin-bridge:
  environment:
    - JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true
    - AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC=120  # Check every 2 minutes
```

**Logs:**

```bash
docker logs -f pmoves-jellyfin-bridge-1 --tail 50
```

---

## n8n Workflow Integration

### Enhanced Workflow with Auto-Mapping

Update the n8n workflow JSON to add Jellyfin bridge step:

```json
{
  "parameters": {
    "method": "POST",
    "url": "http://jellyfin-bridge:8093/jellyfin/map-by-title",
    "sendBody": true,
    "bodyParameters": {
      "parameters": [
        {
          "name": "video_id",
          "value": "={{ $json.video_id }}"
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "name": "Auto-Map to Jellyfin",
  "type": "n8n-nodes-base.httpRequest",
  "position": [1120, 600]
}
```

**Updated Workflow:**

```
Webhook → /yt/ingest → Extract Video ID
              ├→ /yt/emit (Hi-RAG)
              ├→ /yt/summarize (AI)
              └→ /jellyfin/map-by-title (NEW!)
                    └→ Response + Discord notification
```

---

## Testing

### Test Jellyfin Bridge Connection

```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:8093/healthz

# Test search (requires credentials)
curl "http://localhost:8093/jellyfin/search?query=test"

# Test auto-map
curl -X POST http://localhost:8093/jellyfin/map-by-title \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ"}'
```

### Test Full Integration

```bash
# 1. Ingest YouTube video via n8n
curl -X POST http://localhost:5678/webhook/youtube-ingest \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"url": "https://youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ"}'

# 2. Verify video in Supabase
docker exec supabase_db_pmoves psql -U postgres -c \
  "SELECT video_id, title, meta->>'jellyfin_item_id' FROM videos WHERE video_id='dQw4w9WgXcQ';"

# 3. Check if auto-mapped to Jellyfin
# Should show jellyfin_item_id if match found in Jellyfin library

# 4. Test playback URL generation
curl -X POST http://localhost:8093/jellyfin/playback-url \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ", "t": 30}'
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Bridge Not Starting

```bash
# Check logs
docker logs pmoves-jellyfin-bridge-1 --tail 100

# Check environment
docker exec pmoves-jellyfin-bridge-1 env | grep JELLYFIN

# Rebuild
cd /home/pmoves/PMOVES.AI/pmoves
docker-compose build jellyfin-bridge
docker-compose up -d jellyfin-bridge
```

### Auto-Map Not Working

**Symptoms:** Videos not getting `jellyfin_item_id` set automatically.

**Checks:**
1. Is `JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true` set?
2. Are Jellyfin credentials valid? Test: `curl http://localhost:8093/jellyfin/search?query=test`
3. Do video titles match Jellyfin library items? Check: `docker exec supabase_db_pmoves psql -U postgres -c "SELECT title FROM videos LIMIT 10;"`

### Search Returns Empty Results

**Cause:** Jellyfin library may not contain matching items, or search is too specific.

**Solution:**
1. Check Jellyfin library manually: http://localhost:8096
2. Use broader search terms
3. Ensure `JELLYFIN_USER_ID` has access to library

### Playback URLs Not Working

**Cause:** Video not linked to Jellyfin item, or Jellyfin URL misconfigured.

**Solution:**
1. Verify `videos.meta.jellyfin_item_id` is set: `SELECT meta FROM videos WHERE video_id='...'`
2. Check `JELLYFIN_URL` matches actual Jellyfin server
3. Test Jellyfin access: `curl http://localhost:8096/System/Info -H "X-Emby-Token: $JELLYFIN_API_KEY"`

---

## Production Recommendations

### 1. Enable Auto-Linking

```bash
echo "JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true" >> pmoves/.env.local
echo "AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC=300" >> pmoves/.env.local  # 5 minutes
docker-compose restart jellyfin-bridge
```

### 2. Update n8n Workflow

Add Jellyfin auto-map step after `/yt/ingest` completes (see n8n workflow section above).

### 3. Schedule Backfill Job

```bash
# Add to crontab for periodic backfill
0 2 * * * cd /home/pmoves/PMOVES.AI/pmoves && python scripts/backfill_jellyfin_metadata.py --limit 50 --link-youtube --sleep 2 >> /var/log/pmoves-backfill.log 2>&1
```

### 4. Monitor Bridge Logs

```bash
# Add to monitoring dashboard
docker logs -f pmoves-jellyfin-bridge-1 | grep -E "ERROR|mapped|search"
```

### 5. Rate Limiting

For large libraries, add rate limiting to prevent overwhelming Jellyfin:

```python
# In backfill script
import time
for item in items:
    process_item(item)
    time.sleep(2)  # 2 second delay between items
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [PMOVES.YT Service](./PMOVES_YT.md) - YouTube ingestion endpoints
- [n8n Workflow](./PMOVES.yt/README.md) - Automated YouTube pipeline
- [Backfill Script](../scripts/backfill_jellyfin_metadata.py) - Metadata enrichment
- [Agent Zero Events](./AGENT_ZERO.md) - Event publishing system

## API Client Examples

### Python

```python
import httpx

async def link_video_to_jellyfin(video_id: str, jellyfin_item_id: str):
    async with httpx.AsyncClient(base_url="http://localhost:8093") as client:
        resp = await client.post("/jellyfin/link", json={
            "video_id": video_id,
            "jellyfin_item_id": jellyfin_item_id
        })
        return resp.json()

async def auto_map_video(video_id: str):
    async with httpx.AsyncClient(base_url="http://localhost:8093") as client:
        resp = await client.post("/jellyfin/map-by-title", json={
            "video_id": video_id
        })
        return resp.json()

async def get_playback_url(video_id: str, timestamp: float = 0.0):
    async with httpx.AsyncClient(base_url="http://localhost:8093") as client:
        resp = await client.post("/jellyfin/playback-url", json={
            "video_id": video_id,
            "t": timestamp
        })
        return resp.json()
```

### Bash

```bash
#!/bin/bash
BRIDGE_URL="http://localhost:8093"

# Link video to Jellyfin item
link_video() {
    local video_id="$1"
    local jellyfin_item_id="$2"
    curl -X POST "$BRIDGE_URL/jellyfin/link" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -d "{\"video_id\":\"$video_id\",\"jellyfin_item_id\":\"$jellyfin_item_id\"}"
}

# Auto-map by title
auto_map() {
    local video_id="$1"
    curl -X POST "$BRIDGE_URL/jellyfin/map-by-title" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -d "{\"video_id\":\"$video_id\"}"
}

# Get playback URL
playback_url() {
    local video_id="$1"
    local timestamp="${2:-0}"
    curl -X POST "$BRIDGE_URL/jellyfin/playback-url" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -d "{\"video_id\":\"$video_id\",\"t\":$timestamp}"
}

# Usage
link_video "dQw4w9WgXcQ" "abc123..."
auto_map "dQw4w9WgXcQ"
playback_url "dQw4w9WgXcQ" 120.5
```

---

**Status:** ✅ Fully Operational  
**Services:** jellyfin-bridge (8093), pmoves-yt (8077)  
**Last Updated:** October 17, 2025

Commit message:

feat(jellyfin): expose migration telemetry and dashboards

pmoves/docs/PMOVES.AI PLANS/JELLYFIN_BRIDGE_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# Jellyfin Bridge Integration Guide

## Overview

The **Jellyfin Bridge** (`jellyfin-bridge` service on port 8093) provides bidirectional integration between Jellyfin media server and PMOVES services, enabling:

1. **Metadata Linking** - Associate YouTube videos with Jellyfin library items
2. **Playback URLs** - Generate deep links to Jellyfin player with timestamps
3. **Auto-mapping** - Automatic title-based matching between videos and Jellyfin items
4. **Search** - Query Jellyfin library for media matching video titles
5. **Refresh Triggers** - Webhook endpoint for Jellyfin library updates

## Architecture

```
Jellyfin Library
    ↓
jellyfin-bridge (8093)
    ↓
├─→ PMOVES.yt (8077) - YouTube ingestion & transcripts
├─→ Supabase/PostgREST - videos, transcripts, studio_board
└─→ Agent Zero (8080) - Event publishing for downstream workflows
```

## Service Configuration

### Docker Compose

```yaml
jellyfin-bridge:
  build: ./services/jellyfin-bridge
  ports: ["8093:8093"]
  profiles: ["orchestration"]
  environment:
    - JELLYFIN_URL=${JELLYFIN_INTERNAL_URL:-http://jellyfin:8096}
    - JELLYFIN_API_KEY=${JELLYFIN_API_KEY}
    - JELLYFIN_USER_ID=${JELLYFIN_USER_ID}
    - SUPA_REST_URL=${SUPA_REST_INTERNAL_URL:-http://postgrest:3000}
    - JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true  # Enable auto-mapping
    - AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC=60  # Auto-map every 60 seconds
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required | Default |
|----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `JELLYFIN_URL` | Jellyfin server base URL (internal) | Yes | `http://jellyfin:8096` |
| `JELLYFIN_API_KEY` | Jellyfin API key for authentication | Yes | - |
| `JELLYFIN_USER_ID` | Jellyfin user ID for library access | Yes | - |
| `SUPA_REST_URL` | PostgREST base URL | Yes | `http://postgrest:3000` |
| `JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK` | Enable automatic title-based mapping | No | `false` |
| `AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC` | Auto-map check interval (seconds) | No | `60` |

### Getting Jellyfin Credentials

```bash
# 1. Get API Key from Jellyfin Dashboard
# Navigate to: Dashboard → Advanced → API Keys → Create new API key

# 2. Get User ID
curl -s "http://localhost:8096/Users" \
  -H "X-Emby-Token: YOUR_API_KEY" | jq -r '.[] | select(.Name=="YourUsername") | .Id'

# 3. Add to .env.local
echo "JELLYFIN_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY_HERE" >> pmoves/.env.local
echo "JELLYFIN_USER_ID=YOUR_USER_ID_HERE" >> pmoves/.env.local
```

## API Endpoints

### Health Check

```bash
GET /healthz
```

**Response:**
```json
{"ok": true}
```

---

### Link Video to Jellyfin Item

```bash
POST /jellyfin/link
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ",
  "jellyfin_item_id": "abc123..."
}
```

**Purpose:** Manually associate a YouTube video with a Jellyfin library item.

**Response:**
```json
{"ok": true}
```

**Updates:** Sets `videos.meta.jellyfin_item_id` in Supabase.

---

### Refresh Jellyfin Library

```bash
POST /jellyfin/refresh
Content-Type: application/json
{}
```

**Purpose:** Trigger Jellyfin library refresh (calls `/System/Info` to verify connection).

**Response:**
```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "system": "10.10.7"
}
```

---

### Get Playback URL

```bash
POST /jellyfin/playback-url
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ",
  "t": 120.5
}
```

**Purpose:** Generate Jellyfin deep link for video playback at specific timestamp.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "url": "http://jellyfin:8096/web/index.html#!/details?id=abc123&serverId=local&startTime=120"
}
```

**Note:** If video not linked to Jellyfin item, returns placeholder URL.

---

### Search Jellyfin Library

```bash
GET /jellyfin/search?query=Rick+Astley
```

**Purpose:** Query Jellyfin library for movies/videos matching search term.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "items": [
    {
      "Id": "abc123...",
      "Name": "Rick Astley - Never Gonna Give You Up",
      "ProductionYear": 1987
    }
  ]
}
```

---

### Auto-Map by Title

```bash
POST /jellyfin/map-by-title
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ",
  "title": "Rick Astley"  # Optional, uses video title from DB if omitted
}
```

**Purpose:** Automatically find and link best-matching Jellyfin item by title.

**Matching Logic:**
1. Searches Jellyfin library for title
2. Picks item with closest case-insensitive substring match
3. Falls back to first result if no exact match
4. Updates `videos.meta.jellyfin_item_id`

**Response:**
```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "mapped": {
    "video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ",
    "jellyfin_item_id": "abc123...",
    "name": "Rick Astley - Never Gonna Give You Up"
  }
}
```

---

## Integration with PMOVES.yt

### Workflow: YouTube Video → Jellyfin Library

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant n8n
    participant PMOVES.yt
    participant Bridge as jellyfin-bridge
    participant JF as Jellyfin
    participant Supa as Supabase

    User->>n8n: POST /webhook/youtube-ingest
    n8n->>PMOVES.yt: POST /yt/ingest
    PMOVES.yt->>Supa: INSERT videos
    n8n->>PMOVES.yt: POST /yt/emit (Hi-RAG)
    n8n->>PMOVES.yt: POST /yt/summarize
    n8n->>Bridge: POST /jellyfin/map-by-title
    Bridge->>JF: GET /Items?searchTerm=...
    JF-->>Bridge: [matching items]
    Bridge->>Supa: PATCH videos.meta
    Bridge-->>n8n: {mapped: {...}}
```

### Backfill Script Integration

The backfill script (`scripts/backfill_jellyfin_metadata.py`) uses the bridge for:

1. **Fetching Jellyfin Items** - Queries Jellyfin library via bridge search
2. **YouTube Transcript Search** - Uses PMOVES.yt `/yt/search` for semantic matching
3. **Metadata Enrichment** - Combines Jellyfin + YouTube data in `content.published.v1` events
4. **Auto-linking** - Optionally links YouTube transcripts to Jellyfin items via bridge

**Example Usage:**

```bash
# Backfill with YouTube transcript linking
python pmoves/scripts/backfill_jellyfin_metadata.py \
  --limit 25 \
  --link-youtube \
  --youtube-threshold 0.70 \
  --sleep 1.5
```

**What it does:**
1. Fetches `studio_board` entries without Jellyfin metadata
2. For each entry, searches PMOVES.yt corpus for semantically similar YouTube videos
3. Links top matching YouTube transcripts to Jellyfin items
4. Publishes enriched `content.published.v1` events to Agent Zero
5. Updates `studio_board.meta` with YouTube links and Jellyfin metadata

---

## Auto-Linking Feature

When `JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true`, the bridge runs a background loop that:

1. Fetches recent unmapped videos from Supabase (25 at a time)
2. For each video without `jellyfin_item_id`, calls `/jellyfin/map-by-title`
3. Sleeps for `AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC` (default 60s)
4. Repeats indefinitely

**Enable in docker-compose:**

```yaml
jellyfin-bridge:
  environment:
    - JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true
    - AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC=120  # Check every 2 minutes
```

**Logs:**

```bash
docker logs -f pmoves-jellyfin-bridge-1 --tail 50
```

---

## n8n Workflow Integration

### Enhanced Workflow with Auto-Mapping

Update the n8n workflow JSON to add Jellyfin bridge step:

```json
{
  "parameters": {
    "method": "POST",
    "url": "http://jellyfin-bridge:8093/jellyfin/map-by-title",
    "sendBody": true,
    "bodyParameters": {
      "parameters": [
        {
          "name": "video_id",
          "value": "={{ $json.video_id }}"
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "name": "Auto-Map to Jellyfin",
  "type": "n8n-nodes-base.httpRequest",
  "position": [1120, 600]
}
```

**Updated Workflow:**

```
Webhook → /yt/ingest → Extract Video ID
              ├→ /yt/emit (Hi-RAG)
              ├→ /yt/summarize (AI)
              └→ /jellyfin/map-by-title (NEW!)
                    └→ Response + Discord notification
```

---

## Testing

### Test Jellyfin Bridge Connection

```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:8093/healthz

# Test search (requires credentials)
curl "http://localhost:8093/jellyfin/search?query=test"

# Test auto-map
curl -X POST http://localhost:8093/jellyfin/map-by-title \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ"}'
```

### Test Full Integration

```bash
# 1. Ingest YouTube video via n8n
curl -X POST http://localhost:5678/webhook/youtube-ingest \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"url": "https://youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ"}'

# 2. Verify video in Supabase
docker exec supabase_db_pmoves psql -U postgres -c \
  "SELECT video_id, title, meta->>'jellyfin_item_id' FROM videos WHERE video_id='dQw4w9WgXcQ';"

# 3. Check if auto-mapped to Jellyfin
# Should show jellyfin_item_id if match found in Jellyfin library

# 4. Test playback URL generation
curl -X POST http://localhost:8093/jellyfin/playback-url \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"video_id": "dQw4w9WgXcQ", "t": 30}'
```

---

## Dashboard Gate for Post-Upgrade Agent Start-Up

Leverage the Jellyfin AI dashboard (`http://localhost:3001`) as the last checkpoint before restarting the agent stack after a schema or package upgrade:

1. **Refresh the view:** Click **Refresh** to pull the latest `/api/migrations/latest` snapshot and bridge/publisher log excerpts from the API gateway. A successful migration replay should populate the checklist with green indicators for Supabase, Neo4j, bridge, and publisher health.
2. **Validate webhook latency:** The **Webhook Latency** card should report steady-state timings (sub-second averages in healthy environments). Investigate spikes before letting Agent Zero drain backlogs; latency telemetry comes directly from the migration payload so unexpected gaps usually indicate stalled publishers.
3. **Inspect logs:** Review the **Log Viewer** panels. Jellyfin bridge logs should show `mapped` or `healthz` activity without repeated auth failures, and publisher logs should be free of Discord webhook errors. Use the dashboard for a quick skim, then fall back to `docker logs` if something looks off.
4. **Gate agent bring-up:** Only run `make up-agents` (or restart Agent Zero/publisher individually) once the checklist and logs are clean. Capture the dashboard state in the runbook when promoting changes between environments.

Treat the dashboard as the operational go/no-go signal—if any panel reports stale data, errors, or missing telemetry, pause the rollout and resolve the underlying issue before rejoining Jellyfin automations to the broader agent mesh.


## Troubleshooting

### Bridge Not Starting

```bash
# Check logs
docker logs pmoves-jellyfin-bridge-1 --tail 100

# Check environment
docker exec pmoves-jellyfin-bridge-1 env | grep JELLYFIN

# Rebuild
cd /home/pmoves/PMOVES.AI/pmoves
docker-compose build jellyfin-bridge
docker-compose up -d jellyfin-bridge
```

### Auto-Map Not Working

**Symptoms:** Videos not getting `jellyfin_item_id` set automatically.

**Checks:**
1. Is `JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true` set?
2. Are Jellyfin credentials valid? Test: `curl http://localhost:8093/jellyfin/search?query=test`
3. Do video titles match Jellyfin library items? Check: `docker exec supabase_db_pmoves psql -U postgres -c "SELECT title FROM videos LIMIT 10;"`

### Search Returns Empty Results

**Cause:** Jellyfin library may not contain matching items, or search is too specific.

**Solution:**
1. Check Jellyfin library manually: http://localhost:8096
2. Use broader search terms
3. Ensure `JELLYFIN_USER_ID` has access to library

### Playback URLs Not Working

**Cause:** Video not linked to Jellyfin item, or Jellyfin URL misconfigured.

**Solution:**
1. Verify `videos.meta.jellyfin_item_id` is set: `SELECT meta FROM videos WHERE video_id='...'`
2. Check `JELLYFIN_URL` matches actual Jellyfin server
3. Test Jellyfin access: `curl http://localhost:8096/System/Info -H "X-Emby-Token: $JELLYFIN_API_KEY"`

---

## Production Recommendations

### 1. Enable Auto-Linking

```bash
echo "JELLYFIN_AUTOLINK=true" >> pmoves/.env.local
echo "AUTOLINK_INTERVAL_SEC=300" >> pmoves/.env.local  # 5 minutes
docker-compose restart jellyfin-bridge
```

### 2. Update n8n Workflow

Add Jellyfin auto-map step after `/yt/ingest` completes (see n8n workflow section above).

### 3. Schedule Backfill Job

```bash
# Add to crontab for periodic backfill
0 2 * * * cd /home/pmoves/PMOVES.AI/pmoves && python scripts/backfill_jellyfin_metadata.py --limit 50 --link-youtube --sleep 2 >> /var/log/pmoves-backfill.log 2>&1
```

### 4. Monitor Bridge Logs

```bash
# Add to monitoring dashboard
docker logs -f pmoves-jellyfin-bridge-1 | grep -E "ERROR|mapped|search"
```

### 5. Rate Limiting

For large libraries, add rate limiting to prevent overwhelming Jellyfin:

```python
# In backfill script
import time
for item in items:
    process_item(item)
    time.sleep(2)  # 2 second delay between items
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [PMOVES.YT Service](./PMOVES_YT.md) - YouTube ingestion endpoints
- [n8n Workflow](./PMOVES.yt/README.md) - Automated YouTube pipeline
- [Backfill Script](../scripts/backfill_jellyfin_metadata.py) - Metadata enrichment
- [Agent Zero Events](./AGENT_ZERO.md) - Event publishing system

## API Client Examples

### Python

```python
import httpx

async def link_video_to_jellyfin(video_id: str, jellyfin_item_id: str):
    async with httpx.AsyncClient(base_url="http://localhost:8093") as client:
        resp = await client.post("/jellyfin/link", json={
            "video_id": video_id,
            "jellyfin_item_id": jellyfin_item_id
        })
        return resp.json()

async def auto_map_video(video_id: str):
    async with httpx.AsyncClient(base_url="http://localhost:8093") as client:
        resp = await client.post("/jellyfin/map-by-title", json={
            "video_id": video_id
        })
        return resp.json()

async def get_playback_url(video_id: str, timestamp: float = 0.0):
    async with httpx.AsyncClient(base_url="http://localhost:8093") as client:
        resp = await client.post("/jellyfin/playback-url", json={
            "video_id": video_id,
            "t": timestamp
        })
        return resp.json()
```

### Bash

```bash
#!/bin/bash
BRIDGE_URL="http://localhost:8093"

# Link video to Jellyfin item
link_video() {
    local video_id="$1"
    local jellyfin_item_id="$2"
    curl -X POST "$BRIDGE_URL/jellyfin/link" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -d "{\"video_id\":\"$video_id\",\"jellyfin_item_id\":\"$jellyfin_item_id\"}"
}

# Auto-map by title
auto_map() {
    local video_id="$1"
    curl -X POST "$BRIDGE_URL/jellyfin/map-by-title" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -d "{\"video_id\":\"$video_id\"}"
}

# Get playback URL
playback_url() {
    local video_id="$1"
    local timestamp="${2:-0}"
    curl -X POST "$BRIDGE_URL/jellyfin/playback-url" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -d "{\"video_id\":\"$video_id\",\"t\":$timestamp}"
}

# Usage
link_video "dQw4w9WgXcQ" "abc123..."
auto_map "dQw4w9WgXcQ"
playback_url "dQw4w9WgXcQ" 120.5
```

---

**Status:** ✅ Fully Operational  
**Services:** jellyfin-bridge (8093), pmoves-yt (8077)  
**Last Updated:** October 17, 2025
