pmoves/docs/PMOVES.AI PLANS/SUPABASE_DISCORD_AUTOMATION.md, before:

# Supabase → Agent Zero → Discord Automation Playbook
_Last updated: 2025-10-01_

This guide captures the concrete steps and validation checks for wiring the M2 "Creator & Publishing" automation path end to end. It augments the high-level context in `pmoves/docs/CREATOR_PIPELINE.md` and the operational checklist in `pmoves/docs/NEXT_STEPS.md` with implementation-ready instructions.

## Overview
The goal is to fan out `studio_board` approvals into Discord notifications with rich embeds while keeping Supabase as the system of record. The automation relies on three cooperating components:

1. **Supabase PostgREST** — exposes `studio_board` for polling updates and persisting publish audit data.
2. **Agent Zero** — provides the `/events/publish` endpoint that accepts approved content events.
3. **n8n workflows** — orchestrate the polling of Supabase, publishing into Agent Zero, and forwarding final `content.published.v1` envelopes to Discord.

## Prerequisites
- Supabase stack running locally (`make up data` or equivalent) with the `studio_board` table migrated.
- Agent Zero service reachable (default `http://agent-zero:8080`).
- Discord webhook configured for the destination channel (create via *Server Settings → Integrations → Webhooks*).
- n8n instance with access to the above services (Docker profile `orchestration`).

## Environment Variables
Populate the following entries in `.env` (see `.env.example` for placement). Restart docker-compose services after changes.

```
# Supabase
SUPABASE_REST_URL=http://localhost:3000
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=<service-role-key>

# Agent Zero
AGENT_ZERO_BASE_URL=http://agent-zero:8080
AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN=<optional-shared-secret>

# Discord
DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL=https://discord.com/api/webhooks/.../...
DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME=PMOVES Publisher
```

> **Token enforcement (optional)**: Agent Zero accepts `/events/publish` without a token by default. To require authentication, generate a shared secret (for example `openssl rand -hex 16`), set `AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN=<secret>` in `.env`, and ensure the same value is passed by clients via the `x-agent-token` header. Update the Agent Zero compose profile to pick up the new env value before restarting the service.

### Env alignment notes
- Both `SUPA_REST_URL` and `SUPABASE_REST_URL` are now supported for local development. Compose services use `SUPA_REST_URL`; n8n flows reference `SUPABASE_REST_URL`. The example `.env` defines both and points them at `http://postgrest:3000`.
- Prefer `DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME` for webhook display name. `services/publisher-discord` also supports `DISCORD_USERNAME` for backward compatibility.

### Quick manual webhook ping
- Bash: `export DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL=...; export DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME="PMOVES Publisher"; ./pmoves/scripts/discord_ping.sh "PMOVES Discord wiring check"`
- PowerShell: `setx DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL "<url>"; setx DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME "PMOVES Publisher"; pwsh -File ./pmoves/scripts/discord_ping.ps1 -Message "PMOVES Discord wiring check"`

## Import & Configure n8n Workflows
1. In the n8n UI, import `pmoves/n8n/flows/approval_poller.json` and `pmoves/n8n/flows/echo_publisher.json` (see also `N8N_SETUP.md`).
2. Open **Credentials** and create the following entries:
   - `Supabase Service Role` — HTTP Basic auth with the service role key (username blank, password set to the key).
   - `Agent Zero Events` — HTTP Header Auth with `Authorization: Bearer <AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN>`; add a custom header `x-agent-token: <AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN>` if token enforcement is enabled.
   - `Discord Webhook` — HTTP Request node credential with the webhook URL.
3. Edit the imported workflows:
   - Set the Supabase node base URL to `${SUPABASE_REST_URL}`.
   - Inject `${DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL}` and `${DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME}` via environment expressions (requires n8n `.env` update or credential usage).
   - Confirm polling cadence (default: every 60 seconds). Align with Supabase row update frequency.
4. Save and keep both workflows **inactive** until secrets are confirmed.

## Activation Checklist
Perform the following steps in order to validate the pipeline:

1. **Dry-run webhook ping**
   - Use `curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"content":"PMOVES Discord wiring check"}' $DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL`.
   - Confirm the Discord channel receives the message.
2. **Supabase approval trigger**

   - Use helper to insert an `approved` row with a valid `content_url`:
     - Make (Bash): `make -C pmoves seed-approval TITLE="Demo" URL="s3://outputs/demo/example.png"`
     - PowerShell: `make -C pmoves seed-approval-ps TITLE="Demo" URL="s3://outputs/demo/example.png"`
   - Ensure `meta->>'publish_event_sent_at'` is `null` prior to poller run (default when inserting with the helper).
3. **Enable `approval_poller` workflow**

   - Insert or update a `studio_board` row to `status='approved'` with a valid `content_url` (e.g., `s3://outputs/comfy/sample.png`).
   - Ensure `meta->>'publish_event_sent_at'` is `null`.
3. **Verify Agent Zero controller health**
   - Call `GET ${AGENT_ZERO_BASE_URL}/healthz` and confirm `nats.connected=true` and `nats.controller_started=true`. JetStream metrics should increment once the poller is running.
4. **Enable `approval_poller` workflow**

   - Activate once and watch n8n execution logs.
   - Verify Agent Zero logs a `content.publish.approved.v1` event.
5. **Enable `echo_publisher` workflow**
   - Activate once after step 3 succeeds.
   - Confirm Discord receives an embed containing title, namespace, and presigned asset link.
6. **Supabase audit verification**
   - Query `studio_board` for the modified row and confirm `status='published'`, `meta->>'publish_event_sent_at'` populated, and `meta->>'discord_webhook_response'` stored when available.
7. **Deactivate workflows (optional)**
   - If running in staging, deactivate after validation. For continuous operation, confirm schedule intervals and leave active.

### 2025-10-23 Session Status (Codex Sandbox)

| Step | Status | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Dry-run webhook ping | ✅ (2025-10-14) | Validated end-to-end using the `mock-discord` container and the live `publisher-discord` service; webhook received enriched embed payload. |
| Supabase approval trigger | ⚙️ In progress | `studio_board` row id 38 seeded (`status='approved'`, `meta.publish_event_sent_at IS NULL`) awaiting poller pickup. |
| Verify Agent Zero controller health | ✅ (2025-10-14) | `GET /healthz` confirms JetStream-connected controller; publish requests succeed (`make demo-content-published`). |
| Enable `approval_poller` workflow | ⚠️ Blocked | Workflow ID `WrWVyXYBJbQbyaDN` active, yet cron trigger never fires; `execution_entity` remains empty. |
| Enable `echo_publisher` workflow | ⚠️ Blocked | Activation deferred until poller executions appear; manual embed path already validated. |
| Supabase audit verification | ⚠️ Blocked | Depends on poller updating `meta.publish_event_sent_at`; currently stuck at `NULL`. |
| Deactivate workflows | ⏳ Pending | Execute after the live activation run is recorded. |

> **Follow-up**: Next session should import the n8n flows, wire credentials, and run a full poller → publisher cycle against Supabase so `studio_board` audit fields update with real timestamps/screenshots.

## Troubleshooting Tips
- **403 from Agent Zero** — check `AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN` and ensure the shared secret matches the server configuration.
- **Discord rate limits** — limit embed updates to <5/minute per webhook. n8n logs include X-RateLimit headers for inspection.
- **Supabase polling misses rows** — ensure the filter includes `meta->>'publish_event_sent_at' IS NULL` and the poller runs with a consistent `since` cursor.
- **Cron workflows never trigger** — confirm n8n is running via `n8n start` (not an ad-hoc CLI command), set `EXECUTIONS_MODE=regular` with runners disabled, and inspect `execution_entity` for new rows; restarting with task runners enabled (`N8N_RUNNERS_ENABLED=true`) resolved similar idle schedules in 1.115.x.
- **Embed rendering issues** — the `content.published.v1` schema supports `embeds[0].thumbnail_url`; verify the payload includes accessible URLs.

## Related References
- `pmoves/docs/CREATOR_PIPELINE.md` — end-to-end creative flow overview.
- `pmoves/docs/NEXT_STEPS.md` — actionable checklist with owners and status boxes.
- `pmoves/docs/ROADMAP.md` — milestone tracker showing how this automation closes M2 deliverables.

Commit message:

feat(ui): add supabase realtime collaboration helpers

pmoves/docs/PMOVES.AI PLANS/SUPABASE_DISCORD_AUTOMATION.md, after:

# Supabase → Agent Zero → Discord Automation Playbook
_Last updated: 2025-10-01_

This guide captures the concrete steps and validation checks for wiring the M2 "Creator & Publishing" automation path end to end. It augments the high-level context in `pmoves/docs/CREATOR_PIPELINE.md` and the operational checklist in `pmoves/docs/NEXT_STEPS.md` with implementation-ready instructions.

## Overview
The goal is to fan out `studio_board` approvals into Discord notifications with rich embeds while keeping Supabase as the system of record. The automation relies on three cooperating components:

1. **Supabase PostgREST** — exposes `studio_board` for polling updates and persisting publish audit data.
2. **Agent Zero** — provides the `/events/publish` endpoint that accepts approved content events.
3. **n8n workflows** — orchestrate the polling of Supabase, publishing into Agent Zero, and forwarding final `content.published.v1` envelopes to Discord.

## Prerequisites
- Supabase stack running locally (`make up data` or equivalent) with the `studio_board` table migrated.
- Agent Zero service reachable (default `http://agent-zero:8080`).
- Discord webhook configured for the destination channel (create via *Server Settings → Integrations → Webhooks*).
- n8n instance with access to the above services (Docker profile `orchestration`).

## Environment Variables
Populate the following entries in `.env` (see `.env.example` for placement). Restart docker-compose services after changes.

```
# Supabase
SUPABASE_REST_URL=http://localhost:3000
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=<service-role-key>

# Agent Zero
AGENT_ZERO_BASE_URL=http://agent-zero:8080
AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN=<optional-shared-secret>

# Discord
DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL=https://discord.com/api/webhooks/.../...
DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME=PMOVES Publisher
```

> **Token enforcement (optional)**: Agent Zero accepts `/events/publish` without a token by default. To require authentication, generate a shared secret (for example `openssl rand -hex 16`), set `AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN=<secret>` in `.env`, and ensure the same value is passed by clients via the `x-agent-token` header. Update the Agent Zero compose profile to pick up the new env value before restarting the service.

### Env alignment notes
- Both `SUPA_REST_URL` and `SUPABASE_REST_URL` are now supported for local development. Compose services use `SUPA_REST_URL`; n8n flows reference `SUPABASE_REST_URL`. The example `.env` defines both and points them at `http://postgrest:3000`.
- Prefer `DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME` for webhook display name. `services/publisher-discord` also supports `DISCORD_USERNAME` for backward compatibility.

### Quick manual webhook ping
- Bash: `export DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL=...; export DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME="PMOVES Publisher"; ./pmoves/scripts/discord_ping.sh "PMOVES Discord wiring check"`
- PowerShell: `setx DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL "<url>"; setx DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME "PMOVES Publisher"; pwsh -File ./pmoves/scripts/discord_ping.ps1 -Message "PMOVES Discord wiring check"`

## Import & Configure n8n Workflows
1. In the n8n UI, import `pmoves/n8n/flows/approval_poller.json` and `pmoves/n8n/flows/echo_publisher.json` (see also `N8N_SETUP.md`).
2. Open **Credentials** and create the following entries:
   - `Supabase Service Role` — HTTP Basic auth with the service role key (username blank, password set to the key).
   - `Agent Zero Events` — HTTP Header Auth with `Authorization: Bearer <AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN>`; add a custom header `x-agent-token: <AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN>` if token enforcement is enabled.
   - `Discord Webhook` — HTTP Request node credential with the webhook URL.
3. Edit the imported workflows:
   - Set the Supabase node base URL to `${SUPABASE_REST_URL}`.
   - Inject `${DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL}` and `${DISCORD_WEBHOOK_USERNAME}` via environment expressions (requires n8n `.env` update or credential usage).
   - Confirm polling cadence (default: every 60 seconds). Align with Supabase row update frequency.
4. Save and keep both workflows **inactive** until secrets are confirmed.

## Activation Checklist
Perform the following steps in order to validate the pipeline:

1. **Dry-run webhook ping**
   - Use `curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"content":"PMOVES Discord wiring check"}' $DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL`.
   - Confirm the Discord channel receives the message.
2. **Supabase approval trigger**

   - Use helper to insert an `approved` row with a valid `content_url`:
     - Make (Bash): `make -C pmoves seed-approval TITLE="Demo" URL="s3://outputs/demo/example.png"`
     - PowerShell: `make -C pmoves seed-approval-ps TITLE="Demo" URL="s3://outputs/demo/example.png"`
   - Ensure `meta->>'publish_event_sent_at'` is `null` prior to poller run (default when inserting with the helper).
3. **Enable `approval_poller` workflow**

   - Insert or update a `studio_board` row to `status='approved'` with a valid `content_url` (e.g., `s3://outputs/comfy/sample.png`).
   - Ensure `meta->>'publish_event_sent_at'` is `null`.
3. **Verify Agent Zero controller health**
   - Call `GET ${AGENT_ZERO_BASE_URL}/healthz` and confirm `nats.connected=true` and `nats.controller_started=true`. JetStream metrics should increment once the poller is running.
4. **Enable `approval_poller` workflow**

   - Activate once and watch n8n execution logs.
   - Verify Agent Zero logs a `content.publish.approved.v1` event.
5. **Enable `echo_publisher` workflow**
   - Activate once after step 3 succeeds.
   - Confirm Discord receives an embed containing title, namespace, and presigned asset link.
6. **Supabase audit verification**
   - Query `studio_board` for the modified row and confirm `status='published'`, `meta->>'publish_event_sent_at'` populated, and `meta->>'discord_webhook_response'` stored when available.
7. **Deactivate workflows (optional)**
   - If running in staging, deactivate after validation. For continuous operation, confirm schedule intervals and leave active.

### 2025-10-23 Session Status (Codex Sandbox)

| Step | Status | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Dry-run webhook ping | ✅ (2025-10-14) | Validated end-to-end using the `mock-discord` container and the live `publisher-discord` service; webhook received enriched embed payload. |
| Supabase approval trigger | ⚙️ In progress | `studio_board` row id 38 seeded (`status='approved'`, `meta.publish_event_sent_at IS NULL`) awaiting poller pickup. |
| Verify Agent Zero controller health | ✅ (2025-10-14) | `GET /healthz` confirms JetStream-connected controller; publish requests succeed (`make demo-content-published`). |
| Enable `approval_poller` workflow | ⚠️ Blocked | Workflow ID `WrWVyXYBJbQbyaDN` active, yet cron trigger never fires; `execution_entity` remains empty. |
| Enable `echo_publisher` workflow | ⚠️ Blocked | Activation deferred until poller executions appear; manual embed path already validated. |
| Supabase audit verification | ⚠️ Blocked | Depends on poller updating `meta.publish_event_sent_at`; currently stuck at `NULL`. |
| Deactivate workflows | ⏳ Pending | Execute after the live activation run is recorded. |

> **Follow-up**: Next session should import the n8n flows, wire credentials, and run a full poller → publisher cycle against Supabase so `studio_board` audit fields update with real timestamps/screenshots.

## Realtime Collaboration Channels (`studio_board_presence`, `session_messages`)

The new multi-editor UI depends on Supabase Realtime for both ephemeral cursor sync and durable chat persistence. Run the following steps **after** the base schema is migrated so the automation stack can capture live collaboration evidence alongside Discord notifications.

1. **Enable the `pmoves_core.message` publication**
   - Compose / CLI SQL helper: `psql "$SUPABASE_DB_URL" -c "alter publication supabase_realtime add table pmoves_core.message;"`
   - Verify with `select * from pg_publication_tables where pubname = 'supabase_realtime' and schemaname = 'pmoves_core' and tablename = 'message';`
   - Leave row-level security disabled for now; the UI escalates to the service role when the anonymous key is blocked.
2. **Expose the Realtime service key to trusted clients**
   - Populate `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL` / `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` for browser subscriptions.
   - Provide `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` to server-side renderers or edge functions so `pmoves_core.message` inserts succeed when RLS is re-enabled.
   - For Jamstack deployments, surface the service role writes through a signed HTTP endpoint instead of shipping the key to the browser.
3. **Register presence channels**
   - No SQL migration required: the UI publishes to `studio_board_presence:<board_id>` via the built-in Realtime presence API.
   - Confirm the channel appears with `supabase realtime channels list` once at least one client connects.

### Evidence capture workflow

- Record a short session with two cursors visible in the new overlay (`pmoves/ui/components/realtime/CursorOverlay.tsx`).
- Export the chat transcript via `select content, created_at from pmoves_core.message where session_id = '<session-id>' order by created_at;` and attach it to the evidence log (`make evidence-log LABEL="studio-board-collab"`).
- Drop the screenshot plus SQL output into the Discord automation session notes before closing the run.

## Troubleshooting Tips
- **403 from Agent Zero** — check `AGENT_ZERO_EVENTS_TOKEN` and ensure the shared secret matches the server configuration.
- **Discord rate limits** — limit embed updates to <5/minute per webhook. n8n logs include X-RateLimit headers for inspection.
- **Supabase polling misses rows** — ensure the filter includes `meta->>'publish_event_sent_at' IS NULL` and the poller runs with a consistent `since` cursor.
- **Cron workflows never trigger** — confirm n8n is running via `n8n start` (not an ad-hoc CLI command), set `EXECUTIONS_MODE=regular` with runners disabled, and inspect `execution_entity` for new rows; restarting with task runners enabled (`N8N_RUNNERS_ENABLED=true`) resolved similar idle schedules in 1.115.x.
- **Embed rendering issues** — the `content.published.v1` schema supports `embeds[0].thumbnail_url`; verify the payload includes accessible URLs.

## Related References
- `pmoves/docs/CREATOR_PIPELINE.md` — end-to-end creative flow overview.
- `pmoves/docs/NEXT_STEPS.md` — actionable checklist with owners and status boxes.
- `pmoves/docs/ROADMAP.md` — milestone tracker showing how this automation closes M2 deliverables.
