docs/PMOVES_ADVANCED_CAPABILITIES.md, before:

# PMOVES Advanced Capabilities Beyond Standard Multi-Agent Systems

**Date**: October 13, 2025  
**Context**: Analysis following review of state-of-the-art multi-agent demo (Claude Code + OpenAI Realtime API)

---

## Executive Summary

After analyzing the YouTube video's multi-agent orchestration system and comparing it against PMOVES, **we should NOT adapt their repos directly**. PMOVES already has superior infrastructure in critical areas, plus unique AI research innovations that position it ahead of commodity orchestration patterns.

**Key Finding**: The video demonstrates excellent UX (voice interface, real-time observability), but PMOVES has **deeper AI capabilities** that are more valuable:

1. **Geometric Knowledge Transfer** (CHIT)
2. **Grounded Reasoning** (Personas/Packs) 
3. **Topological Quality Metrics** (Latent Geometry Research)
4. **Graph-Native Memory** (Neo4j + MindMaps)

---

## 1. CHIT: Cymatic-Holographic Information Transfer

### What It Is
A geometric protocol for agents to share compressed, structured knowledge representations instead of verbose token streams.

### Current Status
- ✅ **CGP v0.1 Spec**: JSON format with constellations, anchors, radial coordinates, soft spectra
- ✅ **Backend**: CHR (Constellation Harvest Regularization) pipeline operational
- ✅ **Event Bus**: `geometry.cgp.v1` events flowing through NATS
- ✅ **Agent Commands**: `geometry.jump`, `geometry.decode_text`, `geometry.calibration.report`
- 🚧 **Visualization**: D3 UI exists but not integrated into main observability dashboard

### How It Works
```
1. Document/Latent State → Embeddings (Z)
2. CHR Pipeline → Optimize anchor directions (U), soft assignments (p)
3. Compute entropy trajectories (Hg, Hs) → MHEP score
4. Generate CGP packet: {super_nodes, constellations, spectra, points}
5. Agent receives CGP → Reconstruct knowledge with minimal ambiguity
```

### Advantages Over Token Streaming
- **Bandwidth Efficiency**: ~10-100x fewer symbols for same semantic content
- **Lower Decoding Ambiguity**: Geometric structure constrains interpretation space
- **Fractal Drill-Down**: Recursive structure enables multi-resolution reasoning
- **Observable Quality**: MHEP score provides objective coherence metric

### Research Foundation
- **RPE (Range-Partition-Entropy)**: Measures information-as-shape via slab histograms
- **Boundary Holography**: Projects high-D knowledge onto lower-D geometric boundaries
- **90-Day Research Plan**: Instrumentation, probe horizon recursion, transfer experiments, latent-space trials

### Comparison to Video Demo
| Feature | Video Demo | PMOVES CHIT |
|---------|-----------|-------------|
| Agent Communication | Raw tokens | Geometric packets |
| Knowledge Compression | None | 10-100x via geometry |
| Quality Metrics | Logs only | MHEP + entropy trajectories |
| Multi-Resolution | No | Fractal constellation recursion |

---

## 2. Grounded Personas & Pack-Scoped Retrieval

### What It Is
Versioned, policy-driven agent configurations with curated knowledge domain grounding.

### Current Status (v5.12)
- ✅ **Schema**: `pmoves_core.personas`, `grounding_packs`, `pack_members`, `persona_eval_gates`
- ✅ **Retrieval**: Hybrid search (BM25 + vector + Neo4j graph fusion) with reranker
- ✅ **Agent Forms**: POWERFULMOVES, CREATOR, RESEARCHER temperaments in Agent Zero
- 🚧 **Manifests**: YAML personas defined (`archon@1.0.yaml`, `pmoves-architecture@1.0.yaml`) but not fully wired

### Persona Definition Structure
```yaml
name: Archon
version: "1.0"
intent: Controller/retriever for PMOVES
model: gpt-4o
tools: [hirag.query, kb.viewer, geometry.jump, geometry.decode_text]
policies:
  freshness_months: 18
  must_cite: true
default_packs: [pmoves-architecture@1.0, recent-delta@rolling]
boosts:
  entities: ["Hi-RAG", "LangExtract", "Neo4j", "Qdrant"]
filters:
  exclude_types: ["raw-audio"]
```

### Pack Definition Structure
```yaml
name: pmoves-architecture
version: "1.0"
owner: "@cataclysmstudios"
description: Core docs for PMOVES architecture and services.
members:
  - asset: "s3://assets/docs/PMOVES_ARC.md"
  - asset: "s3://assets/docs/ROADMAP.md"
policy:
  allow_external_links: true
  max_age_days: 180
```

### Advantages
- **Reproducible Reasoning**: Version-locked personas + packs = auditable agent behavior
- **Domain Expertise**: Pack-scoped search focuses retrieval on relevant knowledge
- **Quality Gates**: `persona_eval_gates` table enforces retrieval metrics (MRR, NDCG) before publish
- **Policy Enforcement**: Freshness, citation, entity boost rules baked into agent config

### Comparison to Video Demo
| Feature | Video Demo | PMOVES Personas/Packs |
|---------|-----------|----------------------|
| Agent Configuration | Hardcoded prompts | Versioned YAML manifests |
| Knowledge Scope | Global RAG | Pack-scoped hybrid search |
| Quality Gates | Manual testing | Automated eval thresholds |
| Reproducibility | Ad-hoc | Versioned (name@version) |

---

## 3. Latent Geometry as Agent Quality Monitor

### What It Is
Mathematical metrics (δ-hyperbolicity, Ollivier-Ricci curvature, persistent homology) applied to agent reasoning trajectories to detect coherence issues.

### Research Evidence
**Source**: `docs/understand/Latent_Geometry_Is_a_Control_Knob/`

**Five Key Findings** (Fashion-MNIST experiments):
1. **Observer Variance**: Different architectures (CNN vs MLP) produce measurably different latent geometries despite similar accuracy
2. **Process Deformation**: Training process (entropy injection, curriculum) systematically bends geometry; lower δ correlates with better OOD performance
3. **Holonomy**: Training path order leaves persistent geometric signatures detectable via Procrustes analysis
4. **Scaling Soft Transition**: Width/data scaling produces gradual geometry changes, not sharp phase transitions
5. **Direct Optimization**: Tiny sidecar network trained to reduce δ improves OOD (+0.82 pts rotation, +0.26 pts elastic) while preserving ID accuracy

### Metrics
- **δ-hyperbolicity**: Tree-likeness (lower = more hierarchical/coherent); range ~0.4-2.3
- **Ollivier-Ricci Curvature**: Network flow geometry; positive = expansive, negative = contractive
- **Persistent Homology (H₁)**: Topological loop detection; tracks representation manifold structure
- **CKA (Centered Kernel Alignment)**: Representation similarity across agents/checkpoints
- **Geodesic Stretch**: Embedding stability under input perturbation

### Application to PMOVES Agents
1. **Monitoring**: Compute δ, Ricci, H₁ on Agent Zero/Archon reasoning traces
2. **Alerts**: Flag agents with anomalous geometry (high δ, negative curvature outliers)
3. **Optimization**: Use geometry regularization during agent fine-tuning
4. **Validation**: Geometry metrics as proxy for reasoning quality (complement accuracy)

### Comparison to Video Demo
| Feature | Video Demo | PMOVES Geometry |
|---------|-----------|----------------|
| Quality Metrics | Tool call success/fail | δ, Ricci, H₁, CKA, stretch |
| Monitoring | Logs + manual review | Mathematical invariants |
| Optimization | Prompt engineering | Direct geometry manipulation |
| Predictive | Reactive only | Proactive anomaly detection |

---

## 4. Neo4j MindMap Graph Traversal

### What It Is
Constellation-aware knowledge graph navigation enabling causal reasoning and multi-hop inference.

### Current Status
- ✅ **Neo4j Integration**: `NEO4J_URL`, entity cache, warm dictionary refresh
- ✅ **Graph Boost**: `GRAPH_BOOST=0.15` blends graph relevance into Hi-RAG retrieval
- 🚧 **MindMap Endpoint**: `/mindmap/{constellation_id}` designed in `pmoves_chit_graph_plus_mindmap/`
- 🚧 **Agent Commands**: `mindmap.query` not yet in Agent Zero's MCP registry

### Proposed MindMap Endpoint
```python
@router.get("/mindmap/{constellation_id}")
async def get_mindmap(constellation_id: str):
    """
    Returns Neo4j subgraph rooted at the given constellation.
    Includes:
    - Entities (nodes) with embedding similarity
    - Relations (edges) with weights
    - Neighboring constellations within 2 hops
    """
    cypher = """
    MATCH (c:Constellation {id: $cid})
    MATCH (c)-[r*1..2]-(n)
    RETURN c, collect(distinct r), collect(distinct n)
    """
    result = neo4j_driver.execute_query(cypher, cid=constellation_id)
    return {"constellation": ..., "entities": ..., "relations": ...}
```

### Use Cases
- **Causal Reasoning**: Agent Zero queries "Why does X affect Y?" → Traverse graph for causal chains
- **Concept Bridging**: Jump between distant knowledge domains via shared constellations
- **Context Expansion**: From a single retrieval result, explore its semantic neighborhood
- **Anomaly Detection**: Identify orphaned nodes or unexpected edge patterns

### Comparison to Video Demo
| Feature | Video Demo | PMOVES MindMap |
|---------|-----------|----------------|
| Memory Structure | Flat file system | Neo4j property graph |
| Reasoning | Linear token sequences | Multi-hop graph traversal |
| Context | RAG retrieval only | Graph + constellation geometry |
| Causal Inference | Prompt-based | Native graph queries |

---

## 5. Production Infrastructure (Where PMOVES Excels)

### Event-Driven Architecture
- **NATS JetStream**: Persistent, replicated event bus (video likely ephemeral)
- **Versioned Contracts**: `contracts/*.v1.schema.json` with `topics.json` registry
- **MCP Standards**: HTTP/stdio bridges (not proprietary hooks like Claude Code)

### Persistence Layer
- **Supabase**: Postgres + PostgREST + Realtime subscriptions
- **Neo4j**: Graph database for entity relations and mind maps
- **Qdrant**: Vector store with hybrid search (BM25 + semantic)
- **MinIO**: S3-compatible object storage for artifacts

### Observability (Partial)
- **Telemetry Endpoints**: `/metrics` on publisher services with turnaround/latency/cost
- **Rollup Tables**: `publisher_metrics_rollup`, `publisher_discord_metrics` in Supabase
- **Retrieval-Eval Dashboard**: `:8090` web UI with MRR/NDCG charts
- **Real-time Listener**: `pmoves/tools/realtime_listener.py` (`python pmoves/tools/realtime_listener.py --topics content.published.v1 --max 1`) for live NATS event monitoring

### Security & Operations
- **Tailscale Auth**: Optional network-level access control
- **Docker Compose Profiles**: `data`, `workers`, `gateway`, `agents`, `comfy`, `n8n`
- **Health Checks**: All services expose `/healthz` with dependency status
- **GPU Support**: CUDA detection, device passthrough, Jetson compatibility

---

## Recommended Development Path

### Phase 1: Showcase Existing Strengths (2-3 weeks)
1. **Unified Observability Dashboard**
   - Extend retrieval-eval UI to include NATS event feed
   - Add agent status cards (agent-zero, archon, mesh-agent, publisher)
   - Integrate CHIT geometry visualization (constellation viewer)
   - Display MHEP scores and entropy trajectories

2. **Document Unique Capabilities**
   - Write `docs/CHIT_PROTOCOL.md` with CGP spec and agent integration guide
   - Write `docs/GROUNDED_PERSONAS.md` with YAML manifest format and policy examples
   - Write `docs/GEOMETRY_MONITORING.md` with metric definitions and thresholds

### Phase 2: Close Automation Loops (2-3 weeks)
3. **Validation Agent Service**
   - Subscribe to `*.task.update.v1` completion events
   - Trigger schema validation against `contracts/*.v1.schema.json`
   - Optional: Playwright browser tests for UI validation
   - Publish `validation.result.v1` with pass/fail + artifacts

4. **Persona/Pack Wiring**
   - Seed `personas` and `grounding_packs` tables from YAML manifests
   - Wire pack-scoped search in Hi-RAG gateway
   - Add `persona.eval_gate` checks before `persona.published.v1` events
   - Update Agent Zero to load persona configs from Supabase

### Phase 3: Advanced Features (3-4 weeks)
5. **MindMap Integration**
   - Implement `/mindmap/{constellation_id}` in gateway
   - Add `mindmap.query` to Agent Zero's MCP tool registry
   - Enable Neo4j → CHIT geometry cross-referencing

6. **Geometry-Aware Monitoring**
   - Compute δ, Ricci, H₁ on agent reasoning traces
   - Add geometry alerts to observability dashboard
   - Experimental: Sidecar networks for geometry regularization

### Phase 4: Optional UX Enhancements (2-3 weeks)
7. **Voice Orchestrator** (If Still Desired)
   - OpenAI Realtime API wrapper at `services/voice-orchestrator/`
   - WebSocket endpoint for voice input
   - TTS streaming for agent responses
   - Publish `voice.command.v1` events to NATS

---

## Conclusion

**Do NOT adapt the video's repos.** PMOVES has a more sophisticated foundation:

✅ **Superior Infrastructure**: NATS JetStream, Supabase, Neo4j, MCP standards  
✅ **Unique AI Research**: CHIT geometry, grounded personas, latent topology  
✅ **Production Readiness**: Docker profiles, health checks, Tailscale, GPU support  

**What PMOVES Needs**:
1. Unified observability dashboard to showcase these capabilities
2. Validation agent to close automation loops
3. Documentation highlighting differentiators vs. commodity orchestration

**What PMOVES Should Skip** (for now):
- Voice interface (nice-to-have, not differentiating)
- Claude Code hooks (proprietary, not MCP-standard)
- Ephemeral state management (PMOVES persistence is better)

Focus on **visualizing and operationalizing** the advanced capabilities already built. The video is impressive UX, but PMOVES has deeper AI innovation underneath.

Commit message:

docs: capture conscious ingestion roadmap

docs/PMOVES_ADVANCED_CAPABILITIES.md, after:

# PMOVES Advanced Capabilities Beyond Standard Multi-Agent Systems

**Date**: October 13, 2025  
**Context**: Analysis following review of state-of-the-art multi-agent demo (Claude Code + OpenAI Realtime API)

---

## Executive Summary

After analyzing the YouTube video's multi-agent orchestration system and comparing it against PMOVES, **we should NOT adapt their repos directly**. PMOVES already has superior infrastructure in critical areas, plus unique AI research innovations that position it ahead of commodity orchestration patterns.

**Key Finding**: The video demonstrates excellent UX (voice interface, real-time observability), but PMOVES has **deeper AI capabilities** that are more valuable:

1. **Geometric Knowledge Transfer** (CHIT)
2. **Grounded Reasoning** (Personas/Packs) 
3. **Topological Quality Metrics** (Latent Geometry Research)
4. **Graph-Native Memory** (Neo4j + MindMaps)

---

## 1. CHIT: Cymatic-Holographic Information Transfer

### What It Is
A geometric protocol for agents to share compressed, structured knowledge representations instead of verbose token streams.

### Current Status
- ✅ **CGP v0.1 Spec**: JSON format with constellations, anchors, radial coordinates, soft spectra
- ✅ **Backend**: CHR (Constellation Harvest Regularization) pipeline operational
- ✅ **Event Bus**: `geometry.cgp.v1` events flowing through NATS
- ✅ **Agent Commands**: `geometry.jump`, `geometry.decode_text`, `geometry.calibration.report`
- 🚧 **Visualization**: D3 UI exists but not integrated into main observability dashboard

### How It Works
```
1. Document/Latent State → Embeddings (Z)
2. CHR Pipeline → Optimize anchor directions (U), soft assignments (p)
3. Compute entropy trajectories (Hg, Hs) → MHEP score
4. Generate CGP packet: {super_nodes, constellations, spectra, points}
5. Agent receives CGP → Reconstruct knowledge with minimal ambiguity
```

### Advantages Over Token Streaming
- **Bandwidth Efficiency**: ~10-100x fewer symbols for same semantic content
- **Lower Decoding Ambiguity**: Geometric structure constrains interpretation space
- **Fractal Drill-Down**: Recursive structure enables multi-resolution reasoning
- **Observable Quality**: MHEP score provides objective coherence metric

### Research Foundation
- **RPE (Range-Partition-Entropy)**: Measures information-as-shape via slab histograms
- **Boundary Holography**: Projects high-D knowledge onto lower-D geometric boundaries
- **90-Day Research Plan**: Instrumentation, probe horizon recursion, transfer experiments, latent-space trials

### Comparison to Video Demo
| Feature | Video Demo | PMOVES CHIT |
|---------|-----------|-------------|
| Agent Communication | Raw tokens | Geometric packets |
| Knowledge Compression | None | 10-100x via geometry |
| Quality Metrics | Logs only | MHEP + entropy trajectories |
| Multi-Resolution | No | Fractal constellation recursion |

---

## 2. Grounded Personas & Pack-Scoped Retrieval

### What It Is
Versioned, policy-driven agent configurations with curated knowledge domain grounding.

### Current Status (v5.12)
- ✅ **Schema**: `pmoves_core.personas`, `grounding_packs`, `pack_members`, `persona_eval_gates`
- ✅ **Retrieval**: Hybrid search (BM25 + vector + Neo4j graph fusion) with reranker
- ✅ **Agent Forms**: POWERFULMOVES, CREATOR, RESEARCHER temperaments in Agent Zero
- 🚧 **Manifests**: YAML personas defined (`archon@1.0.yaml`, `pmoves-architecture@1.0.yaml`) but not fully wired

### Persona Definition Structure
```yaml
name: Archon
version: "1.0"
intent: Controller/retriever for PMOVES
model: gpt-4o
tools: [hirag.query, kb.viewer, geometry.jump, geometry.decode_text]
policies:
  freshness_months: 18
  must_cite: true
default_packs: [pmoves-architecture@1.0, recent-delta@rolling]
boosts:
  entities: ["Hi-RAG", "LangExtract", "Neo4j", "Qdrant"]
filters:
  exclude_types: ["raw-audio"]
```

### Pack Definition Structure
```yaml
name: pmoves-architecture
version: "1.0"
owner: "@cataclysmstudios"
description: Core docs for PMOVES architecture and services.
members:
  - asset: "s3://assets/docs/PMOVES_ARC.md"
  - asset: "s3://assets/docs/ROADMAP.md"
policy:
  allow_external_links: true
  max_age_days: 180
```

### Advantages
- **Reproducible Reasoning**: Version-locked personas + packs = auditable agent behavior
- **Domain Expertise**: Pack-scoped search focuses retrieval on relevant knowledge
- **Quality Gates**: `persona_eval_gates` table enforces retrieval metrics (MRR, NDCG) before publish
- **Policy Enforcement**: Freshness, citation, entity boost rules baked into agent config

### Comparison to Video Demo
| Feature | Video Demo | PMOVES Personas/Packs |
|---------|-----------|----------------------|
| Agent Configuration | Hardcoded prompts | Versioned YAML manifests |
| Knowledge Scope | Global RAG | Pack-scoped hybrid search |
| Quality Gates | Manual testing | Automated eval thresholds |
| Reproducibility | Ad-hoc | Versioned (name@version) |

---

## 3. Latent Geometry as Agent Quality Monitor

### What It Is
Mathematical metrics (δ-hyperbolicity, Ollivier-Ricci curvature, persistent homology) applied to agent reasoning trajectories to detect coherence issues.

### Research Evidence
**Source**: `docs/understand/Latent_Geometry_Is_a_Control_Knob/`

**Five Key Findings** (Fashion-MNIST experiments):
1. **Observer Variance**: Different architectures (CNN vs MLP) produce measurably different latent geometries despite similar accuracy
2. **Process Deformation**: Training process (entropy injection, curriculum) systematically bends geometry; lower δ correlates with better OOD performance
3. **Holonomy**: Training path order leaves persistent geometric signatures detectable via Procrustes analysis
4. **Scaling Soft Transition**: Width/data scaling produces gradual geometry changes, not sharp phase transitions
5. **Direct Optimization**: Tiny sidecar network trained to reduce δ improves OOD (+0.82 pts rotation, +0.26 pts elastic) while preserving ID accuracy

### Metrics
- **δ-hyperbolicity**: Tree-likeness (lower = more hierarchical/coherent); range ~0.4-2.3
- **Ollivier-Ricci Curvature**: Network flow geometry; positive = expansive, negative = contractive
- **Persistent Homology (H₁)**: Topological loop detection; tracks representation manifold structure
- **CKA (Centered Kernel Alignment)**: Representation similarity across agents/checkpoints
- **Geodesic Stretch**: Embedding stability under input perturbation

### Application to PMOVES Agents
1. **Monitoring**: Compute δ, Ricci, H₁ on Agent Zero/Archon reasoning traces
2. **Alerts**: Flag agents with anomalous geometry (high δ, negative curvature outliers)
3. **Optimization**: Use geometry regularization during agent fine-tuning
4. **Validation**: Geometry metrics as proxy for reasoning quality (complement accuracy)

### Comparison to Video Demo
| Feature | Video Demo | PMOVES Geometry |
|---------|-----------|----------------|
| Quality Metrics | Tool call success/fail | δ, Ricci, H₁, CKA, stretch |
| Monitoring | Logs + manual review | Mathematical invariants |
| Optimization | Prompt engineering | Direct geometry manipulation |
| Predictive | Reactive only | Proactive anomaly detection |

---

## 4. Neo4j MindMap Graph Traversal

### What It Is
Constellation-aware knowledge graph navigation enabling causal reasoning and multi-hop inference.

### Current Status
- ✅ **Neo4j Integration**: `NEO4J_URL`, entity cache, warm dictionary refresh
- ✅ **Graph Boost**: `GRAPH_BOOST=0.15` blends graph relevance into Hi-RAG retrieval
- 🚧 **MindMap Endpoint**: `/mindmap/{constellation_id}` designed in `pmoves_chit_graph_plus_mindmap/`
- 🚧 **Agent Commands**: `mindmap.query` not yet in Agent Zero's MCP registry

### Proposed MindMap Endpoint
```python
@router.get("/mindmap/{constellation_id}")
async def get_mindmap(constellation_id: str):
    """
    Returns Neo4j subgraph rooted at the given constellation.
    Includes:
    - Entities (nodes) with embedding similarity
    - Relations (edges) with weights
    - Neighboring constellations within 2 hops
    """
    cypher = """
    MATCH (c:Constellation {id: $cid})
    MATCH (c)-[r*1..2]-(n)
    RETURN c, collect(distinct r), collect(distinct n)
    """
    result = neo4j_driver.execute_query(cypher, cid=constellation_id)
    return {"constellation": ..., "entities": ..., "relations": ...}
```

### Use Cases
- **Causal Reasoning**: Agent Zero queries "Why does X affect Y?" → Traverse graph for causal chains
- **Concept Bridging**: Jump between distant knowledge domains via shared constellations
- **Context Expansion**: From a single retrieval result, explore its semantic neighborhood
- **Anomaly Detection**: Identify orphaned nodes or unexpected edge patterns

### Comparison to Video Demo
| Feature | Video Demo | PMOVES MindMap |
|---------|-----------|----------------|
| Memory Structure | Flat file system | Neo4j property graph |
| Reasoning | Linear token sequences | Multi-hop graph traversal |
| Context | RAG retrieval only | Graph + constellation geometry |
| Causal Inference | Prompt-based | Native graph queries |

---

## 5. Production Infrastructure (Where PMOVES Excels)

### Event-Driven Architecture
- **NATS JetStream**: Persistent, replicated event bus (video likely ephemeral)
- **Versioned Contracts**: `contracts/*.v1.schema.json` with `topics.json` registry
- **MCP Standards**: HTTP/stdio bridges (not proprietary hooks like Claude Code)

### Persistence Layer
- **Supabase**: Postgres + PostgREST + Realtime subscriptions
- **Neo4j**: Graph database for entity relations and mind maps
- **Qdrant**: Vector store with hybrid search (BM25 + semantic)
- **MinIO**: S3-compatible object storage for artifacts

### Observability (Partial)
- **Telemetry Endpoints**: `/metrics` on publisher services with turnaround/latency/cost
- **Rollup Tables**: `publisher_metrics_rollup`, `publisher_discord_metrics` in Supabase
- **Retrieval-Eval Dashboard**: `:8090` web UI with MRR/NDCG charts
- **Real-time Listener**: `pmoves/tools/realtime_listener.py` (`python pmoves/tools/realtime_listener.py --topics content.published.v1 --max 1`) for live NATS event monitoring

### Security & Operations
- **Tailscale Auth**: Optional network-level access control
- **Docker Compose Profiles**: `data`, `workers`, `gateway`, `agents`, `comfy`, `n8n`
- **Health Checks**: All services expose `/healthz` with dependency status
- **GPU Support**: CUDA detection, device passthrough, Jetson compatibility

---

## Recommended Development Path

### Phase 1: Showcase Existing Strengths (2-3 weeks)
1. **Unified Observability Dashboard**
   - Extend retrieval-eval UI to include NATS event feed
   - Add agent status cards (agent-zero, archon, mesh-agent, publisher)
   - Integrate CHIT geometry visualization (constellation viewer)
   - Display MHEP scores and entropy trajectories

2. **Document Unique Capabilities**
   - Write `docs/CHIT_PROTOCOL.md` with CGP spec and agent integration guide
   - Write `docs/GROUNDED_PERSONAS.md` with YAML manifest format and policy examples
   - Write `docs/GEOMETRY_MONITORING.md` with metric definitions and thresholds

### Phase 2: Close Automation Loops (2-3 weeks)
3. **Validation Agent Service**
   - Subscribe to `*.task.update.v1` completion events
   - Trigger schema validation against `contracts/*.v1.schema.json`
   - Optional: Playwright browser tests for UI validation
   - Publish `validation.result.v1` with pass/fail + artifacts

4. **Persona/Pack Wiring**
   - Seed `personas` and `grounding_packs` tables from YAML manifests
   - Wire pack-scoped search in Hi-RAG gateway
   - Add `persona.eval_gate` checks before `persona.published.v1` events
   - Update Agent Zero to load persona configs from Supabase

### Phase 3: Advanced Features (3-4 weeks)
5. **MindMap Integration**
   - Implement `/mindmap/{constellation_id}` in gateway
   - Add `mindmap.query` to Agent Zero's MCP tool registry
   - Enable Neo4j → CHIT geometry cross-referencing

6. **Geometry-Aware Monitoring**
   - Compute δ, Ricci, H₁ on agent reasoning traces
   - Add geometry alerts to observability dashboard
   - Experimental: Sidecar networks for geometry regularization

### Consciousness Knowledge Loop (new)

To keep PMOVES grounded in authoritative research, we added a full-stack ingestion loop that funnels curated consciousness playlists and papers into every layer:

1. `make harvest-consciousness` scaffolds source material (HTML, PDFs, Docling-ready assets) and generates processed JSONL/SQL/geometry samples.
2. LangExtract (with Docling PDF parsing) converts the corpus into chunk embeddings for Supabase/Qdrant.
3. `make ingest-consciousness-yt` drives pmoves-yt batch ingestion, downloading authoritative interviews, emitting `geometry.cgp.v1`, and logging video mappings.
4. Jellyfin + Creator pipelines refresh automatically, so avatars and persona demos surface the same sources.
5. Evo Swarm advertises the new namespace (`pmoves.consciousness`), and Flute prompt templates import the data for multimodal conversations.

This loop serves as the canonical end-to-end smoke for the knowledge stack: harvest → LangExtract → PMOVES.YT → Supabase/Qdrant → Geometry Bus → Jellyfin/Creator → Flute. Evidence for each stage is captured in `pmoves/docs/SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md`.

### Phase 4: Optional UX Enhancements (2-3 weeks)
7. **Voice Orchestrator** (If Still Desired)
   - OpenAI Realtime API wrapper at `services/voice-orchestrator/`
   - WebSocket endpoint for voice input
   - TTS streaming for agent responses
   - Publish `voice.command.v1` events to NATS

---

## Conclusion

**Do NOT adapt the video's repos.** PMOVES has a more sophisticated foundation:

✅ **Superior Infrastructure**: NATS JetStream, Supabase, Neo4j, MCP standards  
✅ **Unique AI Research**: CHIT geometry, grounded personas, latent topology  
✅ **Production Readiness**: Docker profiles, health checks, Tailscale, GPU support  

**What PMOVES Needs**:
1. Unified observability dashboard to showcase these capabilities
2. Validation agent to close automation loops
3. Documentation highlighting differentiators vs. commodity orchestration

**What PMOVES Should Skip** (for now):
- Voice interface (nice-to-have, not differentiating)
- Claude Code hooks (proprietary, not MCP-standard)
- Ephemeral state management (PMOVES persistence is better)

Focus on **visualizing and operationalizing** the advanced capabilities already built. The video is impressive UX, but PMOVES has deeper AI innovation underneath.
